CMV: TRUMP WILL BE A TERRIBLE PRESIDENT AND HAVE A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE COUNTRY.
OP
ID: 5c8rgf
Author: Mazetron

0

All the Trump related CMV posts I have seen are trying to reassure that Trump won't be able to screw up anything because he will face too much opposition.


I want to understand why people voted for him.



I want to hear the voice of the actual Trump supporters who voted for him.  How will Trump "Make America Great Again"?



Here are my biggest issues with Trump:

 > He is a climate change denier and wants to get rid of the EPA and replaced the climate science expert head of the EPA with a climate denier businessman. (If you think that is a good move because you don't believe in climate change, let me know that.  But let's leave the arguing over whether climate change is real for another CMV)

 > He wants to reduce federal lab grants.  Science is America'a biggest success that has made it "great" in the past.  How could reducing research have anything but a detrimental effect?


 > He wants to expand the NSA.  The NSA is already so anti patriotic I don't understand how someone who's platform is based around patriotism could support that (or how his supporters could support that).

 
 > He wants to shut down Net Neutrality.  For someone who wants to fix the economy, it seems shutting down a policy that promotes competition is counterproductive.


 > His stance of foreign policy is fantastically ridiculous.  He wants Mexico to pay for a wall.  He said Climate Change is a hoax invented by the Chinese.  He can't actually believe everything he says, right?  If he doesn't, why does he say such stupid stuff so boldly?



 > He is extremely rude and vulgar (particularly towards women) in public, on twitter, on TV, on debates.  I don't know what effect that would have on his policies, but that's definitely not a trait I want the person representing my country to have.


There are more issues I haven't mentioned but those are the biggest ones that I want to hear a response to, roughly in order of importance to me.


Why are Trump's changes in these areas going to be beneficial?  Am I misunderstanding Trump?  Or maybe you agree he will cause problems in these areas but will make up for it in others.


I think Trump will be a terrible president.  CMV.

-------

