CMV: IF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS ARE TAKING AMERICAN JOBS, AND THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM, WE SHOULD BE GOING AFTER THE ENTITIES EMPLOYING THE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS.
ID: d9uj1as
Author: beatleboy07

0

>The problem with going after the employers is that for every one that you catch and put out of business, another one will take his place. It is too easy for a business to open up anywhere in the US and easily find undocumented, cheap labor. Trying to police the businesses themselves would take a huge amount of time and money since there are just so many to keep track of and it is so easy to hide undocumented laborers if you get wind of a raid.

I don't know if I believe this. In my scenario, it would almost certainly be more challenging to open a business I admit, but we've managed to make other industries unwilling to hire undocumented labor. Fast food, for instance, is exceptionally difficult. 

Certainly what I'm proposing is not cheap (neither is a wall or increased staffing of ICE), but an increased tax paying labor force could mitigate those costs. 

>Compare this to going after the source of the labor. We know where they are getting in - it's a few thousand miles of border between the US and Mexico. That is much easier to allocate resources to such a small area where everyone that is coming across can either be screened in one place or is crossing illegally.

The effectiveness of a wall is debatable. As is the reality of human desire to improve your lot in life....I need a lot more convincing that it will be more effective to spend billions on this wall, when we already have border security. 

>Now, all of that said we are doing both - we do raid businesses all the time when we get wind that they are using undocumented labor. Its just that there isn't much more we can do there.

I'm sure this is true, and I'm not advocating for dismantling border security. But if we look at the root cause of the problem, is it the person that wants to create a better life for their family, or is it the one who is willing to exploit the other at the cost of the American economy in order to increase their own profits?

-------

