CMV: IF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS ARE TAKING AMERICAN JOBS, AND THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM, WE SHOULD BE GOING AFTER THE ENTITIES EMPLOYING THE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS.
ID: d9v9ych
Author: KettleLogic

0

You've been given pretty good answers, and it's clear that your mind hasn't been changed, you kinda just given a delta because you can't agree.

The problem is your argument comes from not understanding the original premise.

America already has a wall between it an mexico in some parts. Trumps wall is just about completing it.

Additionally fastfood isn't willing to hire as many illegals because it's so easy to catch them out, the industries that still have a lot of illegals tend to be industries where all parties are aware and the public can't easily call in a tip.

You've admitted that you know there are already police for the cheese itself but you don't think getting rid of the mice is important. That's fair enough but you've also oversimplified trumps policy as well as the whole situation.

The wall is one part of what is happening. It will deter some. Not all, but that's where more money spent on rooting out and deporting illegals comes in. As well as forcing countries to take back illegals. As well as deportation of violent offenders.

Note trump policy at first is purely about getting rid of Criminal illegals. 

Additionally your solution creates way more problems for America than it solves. Let say you completely made employers unwilling to employee illegals. What then, do undocumented workers do for money? The answer is illegal activities. Then you have a huge subsection of a minority forced into a life of crime because they are unable to get a job.

So you are left then, with two choices do you a) think illegals should be give citizenship or b) do you think illegal should not be allowed in the country.

If you agree with *A*, is that not unfair to people immigrating legally? And if you think *B* is correct, and that countries should not have borders, or vetting for immigration. Goodluck with that, it shows a real non-understanding of the kind of fiscal impact that could have.

-------

