CMV: IF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS ARE TAKING AMERICAN JOBS, AND THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM, WE SHOULD BE GOING AFTER THE ENTITIES EMPLOYING THE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS.
ID: d9uygrh
Author: Klanko

http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions

1

#1#As you predicted at the end of your statement, they already do this.#1# Here is a short list:#1# http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions

As you can see, the punishments are pretty steep, including heavy fines, and forfeiture of assets including entire buildings.

The main problem with concentrating efforts on the employers is that they have to "knowingly" hire them as illegals, which is hard to prove unless the employer is doing a large campaign to do so (as in the examples in the link). If you have a couple illegals out of 150 employees, it's pretty easy for a lawyer to just say they did their due diligence, but a few just "fell between the cracks."

In addition, there aren't many people who are incentivized to report. The immigrant isn't going to report himself, and the employer sure as hell isn't either. A legal employee at the same company might do so, but it'll be his job on the line as well. It's just easier for that guy to tell the authorities about a one or two illegals at his company, than to take out the entire company, and lose his own job in the process.

-------

http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions
FEDERATION FOR AMERICAN IMMIGRATION REFORM
March 2016

The greatest incentive for illegal aliens to come to the United States is to find work. If there are no employers willing to hire them, then the flood of illegal aliens will subside. #1#The Immigration and Reform Act of 1986 outlawed hiring illegal alien workers, although common practice has proven that measure ineffective for two reasons:#1#

The law requires proof that the employer knowingly hired the illegal worker. The prevalence of fake documents make it difficult to prove the employer knew that the employee’s work documents were not legitimate.

Historically, immigration law enforcement has been the exclusive province of federal law enforcement, but states are increasingly joining with the federal government in that effort and enacting legislation to punish employers for hiring violations. On January 1, 2008, an employer sanctions law took affect in Arizona. Business owners face the nation's first state law that requires employers to verify the work documents of their new employees. The law says any business that knowingly hires a worker who is in the country illegally will have its business license suspended. For a second offense, the business' license could be revoked. That is different from the federal penalties of fines and possible criminal prosecution that have been infrequently imposed for similar offenses.

The information below is taken from news sources. Each party in the report either confessed or was convicted of knowingly hiring illegal aliens. These cases are listed to illustrate the widespread abuse and increased prosecution of companies employing illegal aliens towards the end of the Bush Administration. Prosecutions that have continued in the Obama Administration are largely the culmination of investigations begun before the change in administration. For a discussion of current policy see Interior Immigration Enforcement — Musical Chairs.

-------

