CMV: IF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS ARE TAKING AMERICAN JOBS, AND THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM, WE SHOULD BE GOING AFTER THE ENTITIES EMPLOYING THE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS.
ID: d9v8ftp
Author: greenleefs

0

Imo the solution to undocumented workers is to turn them into documented workers.

They don't "take jobs away", they create them.

Your cheese analogy is wrong because of this. They're not stealing your cheese.

Imagine a small town of 10 people. They all have jobs. An immigrant shows up and he's looking for work. Let's say there's a tailor already and the immigrant is way better at tailoring either by doing a better job or doing a good enough job at a lower price. Yes he'll take the job of the tailor because the other 9 people have a demand for lower prices or better quality. The two tailors are in competition now and quality needs to increase while price decreases in order to stay competitive. 

Making the immigrant tailor illegal means prices stay higher while quality may or may not go up or down while creating a burden on the 10 people because they now require policing to prevent the black market from happening where the new tailor still provides his services. He's also not paying taxes (irl I think the immigrants do still pay taxes, I'm not 100% familiar with the american system) This does protect the existing tailor's job though, in a way... But since the immigrant is now operating outside of the law, what's more likely to happen is that the original tailor employs the immigrant tailor at low wages because the government of the 10 increased barrier to entry for the immigrants by making them illegal in their entirety, not forgetting the fact that the existing tailor will already have his own business running, making it harder for newcomers. The worker can't strike or sue because he has no rights and probably gets in trouble if he reports anything.

But wait. The immigrant is also creating a demand. Previously you only had 10 people to clothe, feed, educate, etc. Now you have 11 people. The 10 people can sell more stuff. There's a 10% increase in demand. They make more money. However, this money goes into taxes to fund the people who police the immigrants.

So the solution would be to give them documents and let them become citizens. There won't be a need to police people who just want a job and thus contribute to society. The police can then instead go after those who kill and hurt people. The tailor may not like that because now he has competitors and loses cheap laborers... or the tailor may like that because now he can employ them legally and not be worried about the policers. Other tailors who see bad tailors who take advantage of others for financial gain were previously forced to do the same in order to stay competitive. Now this is no longer the case and everyone's on a level playing field.

There's an argument out there that immigrants are willing to do the work that others don't want to do anymore. I'm against this argument because it would mean immigrants would only be allowed to do the (sometimes literally) shitty jobs, which is quite racist.

Most don't like competition because it means you need to work harder and deliver a better product. However, you can buy up your competition and make it work for you. The immigrants are already competing anyway. Might as well let them be citizens and have them pay taxes.

A reason to not go after the employers of undocumented immigrants is that if you do that, you're effectively closing businesses. When you have some employers who make good profits hiring undocumenteds, other employers have to do the same to stay competitive. This is an issue in europe so here's another analogy:

Over in some countries, the bars, restaurants, etc., all use a white and black book for their financials. They'll also work with people who aren't registered as workers. They have to hire them and have to deal under the table because everyone else does it too. You cannot stay afloat if your neighbour can sell your exact same goods at 20% less. You have to do the same. So now there's new systems in place that prevent this from happening, special software, more direct software-based financial systems that the government can tap into. A lot of places had to close down because of this. They were unable to deal under the table. That may be bad for them, but they were running a business that wasn't financially viable in the first place and only worked by doing illegal things. The great majority of businesses are still there and taxes are now collected properly. The businesses that were financially viable but had to do illegal things just to stay afloat because everyone else did them, are now still financially viable and less stressed and no longer at risk of being destroyed by fines. (Yes financially viable well-run businesses could have been closed down because bad businesses forced them to stay competitive)

So I'm saying that not all businesses are doing this out of their own free will. They have to in order to stay afloat due to the competition with those who do it on purpose.

Another reason to just documenting them is so you actually have documented them and they're not forced to operate in the shadows. A lot of bad things happen in the shadows.

TL;DR:

- Immigrants are +people, they create a higher demand of goods but also create a supply of goods or services
- Policing the businesses more creates a higher demand of policers and tax money
- Turning undocumented immigrants into documented ones removes the need for policers
- Businesses are often forced to engage in illegal practices because everyone else is doing them. They have to join in order to stay competitive. So not all businesses are to blame and many would welcome better immigration laws.
- Bad things happen in the shadows so it's better to take them out of it.

-------

