CMV: IF UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS ARE TAKING AMERICAN JOBS, AND THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM, WE SHOULD BE GOING AFTER THE ENTITIES EMPLOYING THE UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS.
ID: d9v0ea3
Author: shatterSquish

0

The government would have to put in even more money towards hunting down those employers. Having a larger fine would help with that, but when you shut down that employer you will have to start from square one to find more illegal immigrants. But if that unscrupulous business remains standing then the police could run regular raids on that business and each time have a good chance of detaining undocumented immigrants.


Now if every single undocomented immigrant was instantaneously granted a work visa, they'd leave their shitty jobs for better ones. Now those employers would have to focus on attracting american citizens, who otherwise would rather live off unemployment benefits than work there. If manual labor jobs can be dangerous, causing injuries that ruin your quality of life, result in medical bills that exceed what you're getting paid, or even be deadly, then shouldn't manual labor be paid more than desk jobs? 


That business would then have trouble with hiring enough employees to finish the project on schedule and to incentivize citizens to not quit that manual labor job within the first few weeks. So perhaps the employer would find its cheaper to invest incredible amounts of money towards designing and building robots that entirely eliminate the need for manual labor positions than to increase their pay or benefits? And of course, the price for their product will have to increase which will affect everyone in that area.


Another option is to provide a work visa as a reward for undocumented immigrants who rat out their employer. The government could save money on having to hunt for those employers and on gathering the necessary evidence which could be obtained with the help of the whistle-blower. That idea still has holes, as many people would rather work a shitty, criminally low-paid, and dangerous job than risk their family and friends getting caught in a raid.

-------

