CMV: WIKILEAKS AND FOREIGN HACKERS CHANGED THE OUTCOME OF THE AMERICAN ELECTION
ID: d9uume3
Author: rainbow_bright_

0

I think you are partially correct here, the leaks and their timing played a part in the failure of Hillary's candidacy but there are so many other factors that you should also take into account, including but not limited to:
 
1) There is a surge of populist sentiment in America hungry for change and Hillary represents the old guard establishment; she was the weaker candidate all along because of this very fact. Bernie and Trump ran on a platform of change and authenticity and that's what people, especially those in the Rust Belt states, so desperately need. These people have lost their good manufacturing and factory jobs to Clinton Era trade agreements like NAFTA. They have lost their homes as a result of bank deregulation, which has ruined families, lives, marriages, dreams. There are people hurting desperately in this country and more of the incremental same was not what the American voter wanted.  

2) The content of the leaks is damning; you mention the stratgeic timing being malevolent to HRC which I can't affirm since I'm not Julian Assange. But read these leaks and you will never see the DNC or Hillary in the same light. I will let you do the heavy lifting of seeking this info out instead of summarizing here, and while painful, if you really truly want to understand why she lost and have your mind changed, then I'd dig into the content.

3) The DNC failed to persuade the burned Bernie Bros. Instead of persuading them with key progressive issues and bring them into the fold, it is well documented that Sander's supporters were ridiculed, demeaned, and even escorted out of the national convention. I don't know about you but treating people like that doesn't tend to garner support. In fact it puts them on a hateful path of vengeful fury.

4) Even Hillary's top aide Cheryl Mills thought it was a mistake for Hillary to run given her email situation. That's saying something if even your own staff thinks you are a mortally wounded candidate. Her staff knew she was unpalatable. (again this can be found in the leaks)

Failure has many mothers here. We can say the leaks were certainly a contributing factor, but the real cause of this horrific Failure is Hillary's hubris believing it was "Her turn" and ignoring the reality of American economic desperation in the heart of this country.

-------

