CMV: WIKILEAKS AND FOREIGN HACKERS CHANGED THE OUTCOME OF THE AMERICAN ELECTION
ID: d9v1mkm
Author: SirCabbage

0

If leaks caused people to think she was corrupt, then perhaps she shouldnt have done the leakworthy things in te first place. Voter turnout was low and everyone saw it coming. The email leaks may have helped- but you know what did a LOT more? Ditching Bernie. 

Bernie was the left-wing answer to Trump- he was anti-establishment, able to draw a massive crowd and overall made people excited to vote this election. Instead of embracing that, the DNC chose to sweep him under the rug, having never expected him to get that far and having already decided upon Hillary as their god-emperor. Then when asked what she would do to swing some voters over, she thought she didn't need to. That she was winning and that was that. 

This action disenfranchised the most extreme left-leaning supporters of the party and made them wish to stay home. Normally the most extreme voters are the ones most likely to come out and vote, but because of the stupid ego and hubris of the DNC establishment they were squashed. 

Because your country doesn't have compulsory voting, those who otherwise would have voted democrat anyway just stayed home. The turnouts were at an all time low. Only 18% of your population voted that crazy guy into power and yet he now will reign supreme for four ducking years. 

Trump was the EASIEST opponent possible, having turned off even a good number of republicans- and yet they lost. To act as if the revelation of some fowl play is the cause of this loss is to put your head in the sand to the real reasons. Trump was calling Hillary crooked from the beginning, and even the left-leaning Bernie supporters were seeing that with the perceived voter suppression that she could not be trusted. 

Her polling data has always been within the margin of errors- add to that the fact that the media supports her and gives her every benefit of the doubt on basically everything and you have the perfect storm which helped to create what we have now. A DNC being too full of themselves and causing the worst possible outcome because of their own egos and desire to put their jobs and money in front of what is good for your proud nation. 

-------

