CMV: MANDATORY VOTING IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IS A GREAT IDEA.
ID: d9usa63
Author: lahddax

0

> This is a terrible idea, I'm in charge of managing my time and government should not be telling me what to do with it.

You are in charge of managing your time but frequently we as a society require to give up some of that time and resources to the betterment of society whether that is taxes, the draft, jury duty, or eminent domain.

> Think of all those people who work every single day, especially those in emergency services, but also those who have to be on duty or on call. Think of those who are unable to vote. Think of those who are too busy to vote. Think of those who don't want to vote. Can you see what I'm trying to say?

That's an argument for making voting more accessible to the public, not for fighting against mandatory voting. 

> Also, how would you control that (think about the cost!)? 

Right now in the US about half of those eligible to vote vote. I think we can afford doubling the budget we spend on managing the election.

> You'll never get 100% of population anyway 

It's not about getting 100%. It's about getting 98% or 90%, etc. Obviously their are diminishing returns when trying to push for universal compliance of a law, but that's no reason to try and grab the low-hanging fruit and get the millions of people who would comply with this law without much effort.

> 1% doesn't seem like a lot, but that's roughly 3,180,000 people.

And 40% is a lot of people too. Mandatory voting could increase the number of voters by around ~100 million voters. It seems rather petty to discount that fact just because 3 million people still didn't vote.

> It's a democratic vote, and "not voting" is in fact one of the choices given to the voters.

I don't believe you have the right not to vote. I believe you have the right to abstain, or in other words, you have the right to write in "None of the Above," but I don't think you have the right not to show up at all and register that preference.

-------

