CMV: I DON'T THINK THE DNC RIGGED THE ELECTION AGAINST BERNIE
ID: d9uhphu
Author: shinkouhyou

0

I think there's *some* evidence of direct, targeted rigging against Sanders.  The DNC fed attacks to media outlets, and DNC media talking heads promoted a "Bernie Bros" narrative when ordinarily a party would be *thrilled* if their candidate was generating that kind of enthusiasm among youth voters.  There's also some speculation that the DNC scheduled debates that would give less exposure to unknown candidates.  None of those things would have changed the outcome of the election, though.

But most of the other factors you mentioned weren't targeted against Bernie, they were developed over time to ensure that an *establishment* candidate with strong party ties always wins.  Primary voters are concerned with electability against the rival party, so anything that makes a candidate seem more electable will tip the scale in their favor.  

For an establishment candidate, it's advantageous to have the large Democratic stronghold states and important swing states vote later in the primary season: by then, the race has largely been decided the early states and voters will jump on the "electability" bandwagon.  It's advantageous to have a superdelegate system that gives actual weight to endorsements from established politicians.  Registration deadlines, closed primaries, long lines, voter purges and confusing requirements make it likely that older, establishment-friendly longtime party members will dominate voter turnout.

What if the DNC only used superdelegates in the even of convention ties?  Then the first couple of primaries would have looked highly competitive, instead showing Clinton with a 400-point lead before voting even began.  What if they order of states was different, so Democratic strongholds and swing states went first and set the standard for "electability?"  What if every state had the same voter registration rules, instead of Independents in NY being locked out before the primary season even begun?  What if all primaries were semi-open, allowing the Independents who decide the election to have more of a role in choosing their candidates?  I think any one of those factors would have significantly affected the outcome of the primaries.

Mind you, I'm not saying that the DNC *should* change any of these things.  I'm just pointing out that they do have an effect, and that the current system is calculated to favor a certain outcome.  It may not have been "rigging" against Bernie, but it's a more general sort of rigging.  The Republicans engage in their own version of this, of course, but their system fell apart this year (which, ironically, handed them a winner with genuine popular support).

-------

