CMV: I DON'T THINK THE DNC RIGGED THE ELECTION AGAINST BERNIE
ID: d9ux8tg
Author: Personage1

0

Did what exactly.

That article talks about people showing disdain for Bernie and his supporters in private email.....ok? Again, unprofessional? Sure. Means it's rigged? Not yet. I officiate for a sport and know officials have personal feelings on certain players and certain teams, and while it may be unprofessional to voice thise opinions via email, that doesn't mean we are going out and rigging the game.

Then they mention the DNC figuring out how to respond after Sanders improperly accessed information collected by Hillary, the DNC penalized him for it, and his supporters didn't like it. Again....ok? Should they not be mad when they penalize someone for breaking the rules and then that person's supporters freak out?

Next they complain that the DNC didn't like calls for Shultz to resign and were deciding how to discredit a journalist making them. Except I'm reading the email chain they linked and found some choice comments.

>I understand Joe and Mika will say whatever they’re going to say in terms of opinion, but at a minimum *they should consider the facts* on some of the key allegations they’re making

>The rules in place for this election have been pretty much the same for several cycles. In fact, the major change from 2008 – when Obama beat Clinton --- is that there are actually LESS unpledged “super” delegates, now down to 15% from 20% prior to the change. No one wrote or rewrote any rules to help or hurt any specific candidate, these are the Party rules.

The email chain was actually complaining about how people were accusing the DNC of corruption without evidence. Considering the quality of this article, I'm inclined to think they had good reason to be annoyed.

At this point I'm no longer interested in reading more, because the article is 0 for 3. Lay out your argument with the specific evidence (and seriously, don't just link an article hat appears to not even have read the emails they are linking to) if you want to try again, but don't just post another article that requires me wading through trying to figure out what your argument and evidence actually is.

-------

