CMV: THE ARGUMENTATIVE BASIS OF THE ECONOMIC ARGUMENT PRESENTED BY MR. TRUMP IS FLAWED
ID: d9ufgf3
Author: confirmd_am_engineer

0

Great topic. I wish we had heard some more policy debate during the actual campaign. 

I don't agree with your use of "trickle-down economy" in this case. Trump isn't saying that cutting taxes on the rich will help poor working Americans (actually, he may very well have said that too, but it's not really pertinent to the discussion on trade restriction). For various reasons, US manufacturing can't compete with China or other nations in many sectors. Trump's proposed trade restrictions are supposed to encourage companies to move manufacturing back to the US. Attempting to bring back manufacturing jobs is the opposite of trickle-down. He's attempting to increase the labor base directly by allowing more margin for US-based manufacturers. 

I agree that an across-the-board tariff on all imports is likely to have huge negative effects, which is why I don't think that will be the policy moving forward. Protective tariffs can be very powerful when targeted at specific industries or products. The biggest import products are electronic equipment and machinery (14.4% and 14.3% of all imports respectively). These are things we're more than capable of building here, but we can't compete with countries whose workers make $5 a day. 

There's absolutely a risk of this backfiring by increasing the price of goods, but by targeting the tariffs selectively I think that effect can be kept to a minimum. 

I am curious as to who would have leverage against the US by increasing their own taxes on foreign goods? The list of countries that would be hurt by our increased tariffs that are *also* a large importer of US-made goods would be small, wouldn't it? China may feel an effect, but they are already the world's largest manufacturer of goods. 

There are risks, but the idea of reduced foreign trade and protective tariffs can't be dismissed out-of-hand. 

-------

