CMV: THE ARGUMENTATIVE BASIS OF THE ECONOMIC ARGUMENT PRESENTED BY MR. TRUMP IS FLAWED
ID: d9ugrwi
Author: mormotomyia

0

>For various reasons, US manufacturing can't compete with China or other nations in many sectors.

labour costs. Simply put. Energy is damn cheap in the US, regulations are (likely) alright.

>Trump's proposed trade restrictions are supposed to encourage companies to move manufacturing back to the US.

Which doesnt help if the product produced can only be sold in the US (because again of counter tax).

>Attempting to bring back manufacturing jobs is the opposite of trickle-down.

well he is matching this with a trickle down tax policy.

>e's attempting to increase the labor base directly by allowing more margin for US-based manufacturers.

I dont see this happening while retailers still have excellent margins. (again, the higher the tax for foreign goods, the higher other nations will tax the US)

>These are things we're more than capable of building here, but we can't compete with countries whose workers make $5 a day.

The question is: why would you want those jobs back? they have proven to be prone to being cut and this plan implies that there was some sort of security for those jobs. 
(there isnt) , and only if there is some sort of security for the employer to enegage in some sort of risk with employing people and builing a factory, I dont see many people take such a risk. (when the alternative is still making money with chinese products)

>There's absolutely a risk of this backfiring by increasing the price of goods

it will regardless. When prices for goods increase at some point (before domestic production starts) prices will go up, and you can bet they wont come down for the customer, because as always retailers rather have a bigger share.

>I am curious as to who would have leverage against the US by increasing their own taxes on foreign goods?

China might impose tarifs on high quality US goods, or being China impose tarifs on their own raw materials inhibiting the US production of those goods in the first place. (because china knows how do to trade wars)

We are mainly talking about China (and mexico to an extent), because I dont see the need for the US to impose tarifs on high quality products from the EU, even though those products might as well be produced in the US, because of the fear of an economic crisis, should the EU retaliate with tarifs on their own. 

>but the idea of reduced foreign trade 

but this doesnt make sense! You are not growing the economy by limiting your products and your market to domestic products. You can only achieve the "3.5%" growth while actively trading with other nations. There just isnt a 3.5% growth within the US alone. unless somehow inflation is at 5% and people are buying like crazy, which will not happen after this long perod of calm growth and little inflation.

I dont see markets react positively to any attempt on imposing restrictions on them. 
And while I can see the need to prevent pricedumping ( we are having some issues with chinese products being dumped into the european market ) I dont see the need to inhibt the free market when there is no dumping going on. (environmental restrictions and other restrictions mandated by law are an exception)

What you fail to convay is how those tarifs manage to create *secure* jobs which wont be gutted the second people find a trick around the tarifs or even within them. Or the second people in those jobs demand more money. Those jobs will only exist because of the tarifs and are therefor increadibly insecure, thus they are a bad foundation to build growth on, because the second the US economy reacts badly to really anything, these jobs are the first to fall.

Edit:

the idea about trickle down is: you give people with money the incentive to come back producing in the US, which will in turn lead to people being better off. Instead of helping the workers directly by enabeling them to innovate, get a fair share.







-------

