CMV: THE ARGUMENTATIVE BASIS OF THE ECONOMIC ARGUMENT PRESENTED BY MR. TRUMP IS FLAWED
ID: d9ujqm7
Author: mormotomyia

0

>and Ford could then re-open some of those factories and put people back to work.

and in doing so the product becomes more expensive.

There is no world in which you can produce for the same cost in the US or in Mexico. Meaning the cost of the finished product will likely increase, which will give automotive companies who produce in a different country and ship the product to the US (like VW with some of their products for the european market is doing in Mexico) a competitive advantage because they dont feel the price hike for car parts that US companies will feel.

The main issue is here: how are you explaining to people that for ever % of tarifs on foreign products the finished product will at least be the same % more expensive. at least because at some point suppliers cant break even in mexico (with the added tarif) and US made products dont break even even with tax exception, but since there is a need, prices will go up anyway.

Only for the customer to pay.

How will you be dealing with this? you cannot force wage increase for the low income class (at least not after trump favors abolishing of minimum wage) 

now you need to pay someone working in a factory a fair wage, (unless unemployment is high), which you can only do if you break even in the first place. This means there is no incentive for car companies to risk investing in the US if breaking even is an issue right from the start.

This just means: the US has a competitive disadvantage through high standards of living and high wages when it comes to low skilled jobs. To render itself competitive it would hurt parts of the economy (namely the people in all other fields who already had a job) by having prices rise.

And these are not many jobs, especially if you have tax incentives for the companies, which will result in the attempt of even more automatisation in the process. The amount of jobs gained is in no comparison to the detrument for everyone paying for it. (and those who were already making money off of it making even more money) 






-------

