CMV: THE PRIME DIRECTIVE SHOULD BE EXPANDED TO INCLUDE ALL ALIEN LIFEFORMS AND SUPPORT OF COLONIZATION OF CLASS M PLANETS BY STARFLEET SHOULD CEASE.
OP
ID: 5c7ynz
Author: Pinewood74

0

The Prime Directive prevents the interference by Starfleet personnel in foreign civilizations.  Generally used to avoid giving them advanced technology, interfering with their moral growth, or instilling Starfleet's values on foreign planets.

However, no such protections are offered to planets that have yet to develop sentient life.  Starfleet routinely colonizes Class M planets.  I believe this can have the effect of stifling the development of new sentient life.  We have little knowledge of how sentient life develops and even less knowledge of how bringing new life to a planet would affect the evolution of the local flora and fauna. 

Additionally since the colonists are not Starfleet personnel they have no duty to uphold the Prime Directive. (see: TNG S1E14 "Angel One")  So, if sentient life does spring up, the colonists would have no duty to not interfere and likely would interfere and obviously just their presence on the planet is interference in and of itself.

Now, I do not believe that Starfleet should decolonize all planets that have already been colonized or prevent colonization (as in the same "Angel One" episode non Starfleet humans were allowed to stay on the planet and the Enterprise crew was not required to remove them from the planet) by civilians.  They should just not actively promote it and should not offer assistance to any future colonists.

As for non-Class M planets, I'm not entirely sure about whether they should be allowed to be colonized because I'm not familiar with the in-canon development of life on those planets.  If it's generally impossible for life to develop there naturally then they should be allowed to colonize, but if there are numerous cases of life developing on non Class M planets, then we should avoid colonizing them as well, but this really isn't the crux of the argument, so please avoid nitpicking in this regard.

[P.S.  Mainly making this post as a fun debate in contrast to the front page filled with election related posts]

-------

