CMV: HEARTHSTONE IS A BAD CARD GAME
ID: d9unni7
Author: ZataCS

0

(my alt account for phone)

But on ladder current rank 2 every zoo deck is effectively the same but I've faced more aggro shaman than anything else and they are all the same card for card to the point I made a shadow heal priest deck to outlive the aggro decks that are so common. Small changes are common in legend or high ranks but you cannot fundamentally change the decks archetype just switch draw cards and so on. RNG at high levels is very common, nzoth is 100% RNG and most decks to hit rank 1 have had him in them same with c'thun in earlier versions are based on chance and strategic RNG.

I have no issue with Strategic RNG but you cannot justify that even calculated risks involving RNG have massive disparities between best outcome and worst. You cannot plan for having shit RNG and shit draws no matter how you build the deck. (magic has cards that are for low land decks can be used when you dont draw any land cards. Also has cards that allow you to reshuffle your deck to help with bad  draws. )

Aggro shaman and aggro hunter are still some of the most prevalent decks I have faced from rank 15-5 and most are 100% copies of decks on heathpwn. Having fun and being competitive shouldn't be at odds with each other and building a deck for the meta is how it works..... I never said I wanted to win I just was using that as an example for how meta dominated hearthstone is vs other CCGs. I had fun in the first few iterations of hearthstone but the new cards haven't added anything major just added onto preexisting RNG. Since the release of HS their have been maybe 10-20 competitive deck archetypes (at best) and each expansion just makes one more viable than others. That was my main point. It is just a revolving cycle of making one class / archetype stronger than nerfing another. Card games need innovations (the new expansion looks promising but looks like it will just make control priest more viable than before. )

-------

