CMV: KNOWINGLY VOTING FOR A XENOPHOBIC BIGOT MAKES YOU A XENOPHOBIC BIGOT YOURSELF. I DON'T WANT TO THINK HALF OF THE US-POPULATION IS LIKE THAT SO PLEASE CMV
ID: d9uw355
Author: nidenRaptor

0

First off think of voters as being physical phenomenon, more than conscious phenomenon. This helps clarify their positions. 

There is an order to operations for voting.

First is everything okay for you? Do I have a job, do I have hope for the future, am I able to make the decisions I need to get what I want out of life. 

Second, once all of that is done for you, you can start to help other people and the rest of society-- and look at policies that help everyone (the good guys) or look at policies that raise your position at the expense of others (the bad guys). 

The problem with calling half of the country racists and misogynists, is that, while there are some real racists in that coalition, most of them are just looking at step one. They are asking the question, "Can I make money, find a job, and have a family/ life." The answer has been more and more no. There are less and less options to make the equivalent of 80k a year without a college degree anymore.  

So it is simple they can't get to step 2, because the needs in their communities has made it so they had to listen to whoever was giving them any attention. With Trump, I think people voted for him despite his rhetoric, not because of it. So no the majority of the voters are not racists and misogynists, just regular people who have been disenfranchised and are looking to someone who is listening to their concerns. It's unfortunate that the only candidate (beside Bernie) that was right about how NAFTA ruined working communities in the rust belt, also happens to be misogynistic and racist. I dont think that means everyone who voted for him voted for hate and racism . They voted to have their communities restored. 

The sad part about Trump is that while he is right about NAFTA, he doesn't understand why he is right or what to do about it. We shall see what happens. 


-------

