CMV: KNOWINGLY VOTING FOR A XENOPHOBIC BIGOT MAKES YOU A XENOPHOBIC BIGOT YOURSELF. I DON'T WANT TO THINK HALF OF THE US-POPULATION IS LIKE THAT SO PLEASE CMV
ID: d9ukytw
Author: championofobscurity

0

My argument is that people are nuanced. Why is it that every Bernie Sanders/DNC supporter gets a free pass for voting on Hillary, who is arguably more corrupt than trump and just as awful in any other number of ways. Because they exist in the moral majority? That's heinous. 

People drawing their line in the sand differently than you, does not automatically make them bigoted, racist, xenophobic or sexist. They have to prove that with their own actions. A lot of people (myself included, I didn't vote on the presidency thusly) went into this presidency feeling like there were no good candidates. So why is it, that if you feel voting for Hillary is godawful because she's a murderer somehow worse than voting in a Guy who said some stuff you don't like and is a big business assshole?

 People care about different issues, in different orders of magnitude and they are perfectly allowed to do so and it's a reasonable position to take. You can care about the rights of others, while also putting them in a category that is less important than wanting the means to feed your family. This election seems entirely predicated by the notion that people *have* to vote alturistically. They don't. It's perfectly acceptable to vote in line with your own interests, even if that means hurting other people's positions. Reason being is that other people's positions might hurt you in some regards, that are unrelated to bigotry entirely.

So at the end of the day, when you have two otherwise equally shitty candidates, all you're *really* splitting hairs over is personal interests. Some people are probably actually bigoted. But to say that if you voted for Trump it only follows suit that you are any of those  things is disingenuous.  There are 300,000,000 people in the United States and we only have 2 choices of consequence.

-------

