CMV: READING BOOKS IS VIRTUALLY POINTLESS.
ID: d9u800o
Author: BenzineBro

http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.is.ed.ac.uk/science/article/pii/S0885200699000381

1

Personally, I don't read a whole lot of books myself and I almost always prefer to use audiobooks. That being said, I still think that reading has its own merits which make it worthwhile.

My points are the following:

1. Reading a book builds concentration, vocabulary and expression of ideas in a logical way which is more difficult to do on the same scale with visual medium. (i.e. TV, movies, videos)

2. When it comes to fiction, it helps to build empathy you often learn to see the world through descriptions which are not entirely your own

3. When it comes to reading classics, its about teaching you to engage with these kinds of things critically which is important for the development of ideas.

So now, I'll break it down;

* The difficulty of reading as a task shouldn't be undervalued. Sure, we read a lot every day but only in short burts. When it comes to reading a book, it forces us to not only commit to a single narrative for a longer length of time than otherwise. Not only do you need to focus on the reading itself but you must remember the characters, their backgrounds, their motives as well as aspects of the larger world. It's no secret that #1#reading in this way helps to [stimulate the mind improving things like memory, vocabulary and expression of ideas]#1#(http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.is.ed.ac.uk/science/article/pii/S0885200699000381). 

* The second point is probably one of the heavier selling points when it comes to reading novels. When you watch something through visual medium a lot of the personal narrative is lost. This is one of the reasons why people who read books that become adapted into movies almost always complain about a loss of detail in some level. A good example of this is game of thrones, if you read the books there's a lot of character exposition for Jon Snow and Tyrion Lannister. There's a scene where Jon sits outside of a party when the king comes to visit. In the books there is a section describing how Jon feels like an outcast and how he wants to rise above being a bastard in stark (no pun intended) contrast to Tyrion who "wear[s] it like armor". In the TV adaptation, all we really see in Jon looking sullen, his inner dialogue is hinted at but not explicitly outlined. This shows that when it comes to explaining, and outlining chatacters non-fiction writing has a leg-up, as it were. By being able to engage with characters more, empathy builds.

* For my last point, studying classics seems weird at first but after a while you have to realise that when it comes to consuming media of all kinds, *every single detail is a* **choice**. From the characters themselves to themes which repeatedly appear, these details are the key to understanding the philosophy and deeper meaning behind a story. People like to poke fun at english because people find all sorts of patterns which don't exist but the key is to find consistency and how everything builds together to build a point. This isn't only done with classics but this is a skill you can learn and apply to wider media.

    For instance, in Code Geass the main character enjoys playing chess and often refers to the encounters that he is in as a strategic game. He's often seen holding a king and commands other people/pieces as he remains on the back lines calling out strategic shots, he IS the king. The way how people on both sides treat their soldiers/pawns as dispensable probably shows how war and a chain of command causes the dehumanisation of people causing immoral behaviour. Now, I'm no english student (I study chemistry) but these are the skills that I learned while studying classics in english class. To be able to engage with media like this has been super helpful and I do it as much as I can.

Overall, I have shown that while other forms of media are worth while, reading books helps to develop the mind in a lot of ways. If you don't do it, that's fine, but you can't realistically go on to say that it is pointless the practical rewards for reading are very high indeed.

-------

http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.is.ed.ac.uk/science/article/pii/S0885200699000381
EASE
JavaScript Alert: Please enable Javascript. This site will work better with it on.

Do not share your password with anyone. We never ask you for your password in emails or via web forms other than this login page.

-------
###INTERACTIVE###
