CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9uha09
Author: DashingLeech

http://imgur.com/TOGIbcP

1

If that's your definition of counterproductive, then indeed it was counterproductive. Democrat support was [way down](http://imgur.com/TOGIbcP) from 2008 (~70M) to 2012 (~66M) to 2016 (~60M). And they didn't shift to Republican. That stayed steady within a million or so of 60M the whole time.

Democrats didn't show up more; they showed up less. As you your question:

> Democrats will be increasingly successful if they can keep blacks, latinos, and LGBT locked down. It didn't pan out for them this time, but how else are you supposed to maximize turnout if you rely on marginalized groups as your base?

Your implication is insulting to these groups. You are implying that the only way to attract voters that fall into these groups is to protect these people *as a group* and to insult everybody else.

Here's a crazy idea, but perhaps start treating people like individuals again, like liberalism always has in the past. Promote the rights *of individuals* to marry who they want, and that includes homosexuals, not promote that homosexuals are victims as a group and that cisgendered white males are to blame and should be ashamed. 

How about focusing on the reduction of unjust shooting of *anybody* for any reason by police. That will reduce injustice to people who are black, white, latino, homosexual, transgendered, men, women, and all people. Do you believe that blacks, latinos, and other groups will look at that and say, "Hey, but you didn't focus on *us* and you didn't blame whites, males, and cisgenders. I can't support you politically."

I mean, it's really insulting to these groups, and to me, that the regressive left (as opposed to liberal left) have such a low opinion of people in these groups that they think you need to treat them as groups and insult everybody else in order to get support.

We are all people. We all bleed the same. We all suffer the same as individuals. The poor suffer the same whether poor white or poor black. People who have the traits that correspond to these groupings do not lose rational sense because of it. A poor black person can fully understand the plight of a poor white person, and can understand the concept that it's not fair to treat them differently.

If you want to maximize turnout, stop being divisive at all. Address freedom, rights, equal opportunity, fairness to *everybody*. Don't play people off against each other because of their skin color, or their sexual orientation, or their beliefs. We share more in common than we do differently.

I, as a white cisgendered male, share views more closely with a black woman born in Mogadishu, Somalia who escaped female genital mutilation and an arranged marriage than I do views with Donald Trump. I share views closer to a Muslim born in Essex, England who became a terrorist but outgrew it. I share world views with a young brown woman born in Pakistan and raised in Texas than Trump. I share views closer to a brown arab Jew that excaped Lebanon in the 1970s (with parents held captive for some time) to the West. Their names are Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Majaiid Nawaz, Sarah Haider, and Gad Saad. I even agree with *some* of the things by a British flaming homosexual of Greek descent (Milo Yiannopolis), though we differ on other things.

Yet for some reason, the "strategy" you discuss feels that my views somehow are better described based on my skin color, ethnicity, and sexual orientation. That to get their vote, politicians need to cater to their skin color and denigrate mine. Yet these people won't have it, nor will I. 

We are all people. We can think. We can reason. We can understand what is fair and what isn't. We aren't groups battling each other; are are all individuals trying to get along.

You want to maximize turnout; promote that message of unity, not divisiveness.


-------

http://imgur.com/TOGIbcP
I MADE A CHART SHOWING THE POPULAR VOTE TURNOUT IN 2008, 2012 AND 2016.
I made a chart showing the popular vote turnout in 2008, 2012 and 2016.

-------
###IMAGE###
