CMV: THERE IS NO REAL EVIDENCE THAT BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE EASILY BEATEN TRUMP, DESPITE THE FLOOD OF /R/ALL POSTS CLAIMING SO
ID: d9u6kwn
Author: TezzMuffins

http://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/national-results-map

1

This might have been right, OP, if there was not the possibility that either candidate could have run WITH the other person on their ticket.

I think there is real enough reason OP, if Hillary had chosen Bernie as her running mate, or if Bernie was the nominee and would have chosen Hillary as his running mate, they would have won, and would have made that choice if they had fully realized they would be losing the older white "union" voters to Trump. Bernie pulled a lot of punches in the primary, especially about Hillary's emails, and that would have lent itself nicely to a joint ticket because they wouldn't seem like they would have to be betraying their own pride to run with the other.

If you look at an electoral map such as[ this,] (http://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/national-results-map) and from perusing 538 on demographics, that the states Bernie pulled in the primary were states that Hillary was relying on most crucially to win the electoral college. States such as Wisconsin, Michigan, New Hampshire, and the central West Virginia - esque parts of Pennsylvania. These were white voters concerned with rising inequality and the idea that the economy was not working for them, the same voters who used Trump as a vehicle for a protest vote.

Furthermore, there is no reason why Bernie would be weaker with black voters in states like Ohio, North Carolina, and Florida than Tim Kaine, who has absolutely no power to change a vote in any state by force of personality except Virginia. Either Hillary uses the Clinton brand as VP to push black support for a Bernie-Hillary ticket, or Hillary herself touts Bernie's history of pushing for civil rights on the stump. There is not one single black voter I know who actually knows about Kaine's history as a lawyer, but some do know about Bernie's past, especially because the primary gained him name recognition.

The most successful attack line Trump used on Hillary was her credibility/emails. Bernie has this characteristic in spades, whereas Kaine all along was seen as an operator in Hillary's inner circle.

Obviously, none of this is hard evidence, but we can make conclusions about "what ifs" on past elections all the time. There is no hard evidence that if Hillary had not had the email scandal that she would have won as well, but that doesn't mean we couldn't make the conclusion she would have gotten 1% more of the vote, either. There's no hard evidence that Obamacare's counterreaction won the midterm election for the Republicans in 2010 and 2014, but we can still make that conclusion.

I think there is hard enough evidence to make a reasonable conclusion that a Hillary-Bernie ticket, in either permutation, would have won Michigan, Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and the District in Maine, enough states to win the election. There is absolutely no way that Trump makes a more credible play at union voters who voted for Obama than Bernie. Obama won Iowa by 10% when he ran, and Hillary lost it by 10%, because of THESE voters.

There is also turnout. A Bernie-bro vs anti-socialist election would get high turnout. Statistically, Democrats win elections with higher turnout, in midterms and general elections. While none of this is hard evidence, taken together make a pretty hard case.

-------

http://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/national-results-map
DETAILED MAPS OF WHERE TRUMP, CRUZ, CLINTON AND SANDERS HAVE WON


-------

###IMAGE###