CMV: BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE LOST THE ELECTION.
OP
ID: 5c6m45
Author: halcyon950

http://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-02-11/how-bernie-sanders-spent-his-soviet-honeymoon

http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained

http://www.inquisitr.com/3371682/bernie-sanders-is-a-career-politician-not-a-revolutionary

http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/06/2016-bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-democrats-race-racial-divide-213948

http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/08/politics/first-exit-polls-2016/

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/06/06/racial-anxiety-is-a-huge-driver-of-support-for-donald-trump-two-new-studies-find/

https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos

7

I'm going to premise this by saying that I think Bernie is a generally good person, but I think people are wearing rose tinted glasses in evaluating if he would have won the general if he had been the democratic nom. Below, I lay out 3 arguments why I don't think he would have won/outperformed Clinton.

**Hillary went easy on Bernie in the primaries, and he would have had more scandals in the general**

There's a ton of information about Bernie that Hillary didn't bring up because it wouldn't be useful in front of a democratic audience. However, in the general, these things could be devastating. Namely, his #1#[honeymoon in the USSR,]#1# (http://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-02-11/how-bernie-sanders-spent-his-soviet-honeymoon) his essay about #2#[rape fantasies,]#2# (http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained) and the fact that he's a #3#[career politician who's worked for government for 40 years]#3# (http://www.inquisitr.com/3371682/bernie-sanders-is-a-career-politician-not-a-revolutionary). He would be very easy to paint as a socialist, which is still in a boogeyman among the white working class/rural voters that he could theoretically pull that Clinton couldn't. It would also be a harder challenge to pull Republican women because both of those things listed above.


**He wouldn't have inspired black/hispanic turnout.**

#4#The primary reason Clinton won overwhelmingly in the primary is because of [black and hispanic turnout]#4#(http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/06/2016-bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-democrats-race-racial-divide-213948). She's built inroads with those communities for decades. 

However, in the general, #5#she [failed to energize] (http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/08/politics/first-exit-polls-2016/) those 2 groups sufficiently to win#5#. If she failed to capture that core Democratic group, than there's no reason Sanders would have sufficiently closed that gap to overwhelm the turnout that Trump would inspire among rural americans.

**He would not be able to capture Trump voters because he doesn't tap into racial anxiety, and actually causes religious anxiety**

#6#Bernie sanders doesn't scape goat minorities, LGBT, or refugees. Unfortunately [this is what many trump voters wanted to see]#6# (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/06/06/racial-anxiety-is-a-huge-driver-of-support-for-donald-trump-two-new-studies-find/). As a result, he probably would not have peeled off enough cultural Trump voters to overcome Trump's lead.

#7#He also faces the challenge of being Jewish, which I believe would probably alienate him from a few points of the Black and Hispanic vote, [which tend to be relatively religious]#7# (https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos). It's unfortunate, but true that I think he would've faced discrimination for this from muslim and christian democrats.


Based on these factors, I don't see him flipping any states that Clinton failed to win, and as a result, probably doing equally as badly or worse than her.
_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*

-------
http://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-02-11/how-bernie-sanders-spent-his-soviet-honeymoon
HOW BERNIE SANDERS SPENT HIS SOVIET 'HONEYMOON'

The state of the country in 1988 wouldn't have made him a communist sympathizer.

The state of the country in 1988 wouldn't have made him a communist sympathizer.

#1#Senator Bernie Sanders's long-ago "honeymoon" in the Soviet Union is held up by his opponents as evidence of dubious judgment, and even Communist sympathies or anti-American tendencies.#1# The self-described socialist was questioned about the visit during a debate of Democratic presidential candidates in October as a way to raise doubts about his electability.

-------

http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained
THE BERNIE SANDERS 'RAPE FANTASY' ESSAY, EXPLAINED
The Bernie Sanders 'Rape Fantasy' Essay, Explained

Enlarge this image toggle caption Win McNamee/Getty Images Win McNamee/Getty Images

Mother Jones dug up a 1972 essay that Bernie Sanders wrote for the Vermont Freeman, an alternative newspaper. The article, called, "Man-and-Woman," is a commentary on gender roles. But it's also caused a stir, as is bound to happen anytime a candidate mentions rape.

If you haven't been following the hubbub, read on for a rundown of what the controversy is all about.

So what did Bernie Sanders write and what did he say about rape?

#2#The essay by the Vermont senator, who officially kicked off his presidential campaign this week, isn't long — only a page. Warning: The bit about rape comes at the very beginning, as does some not-totally-safe-for-work language:#2#

"A man goes home and masturbates his typical fantasy. A woman on her knees, a woman tied up, a woman abused. "A woman enjoys intercourse with her man — as she fantasizes being raped by 3 men simultaneously. "The man and woman get dressed up on Sunday — and go to Church, or maybe to their 'revolutionary' political meeting. "Have you ever looked at the Stag, Man, Hero, Tough magazines on the shelf of your local bookstore? Do you know why the newspaper with the articles like 'Girl 12 raped by 14 men' sell so well? To what in us are they appealing?"

Sanders then goes on to explain his ideas about gender roles and eventually gets at a sharper point — that traditional gender roles help create troubling dynamics in men's and women's sex lives.

"Many women seem to be walking a tightrope," he writes, as their "qualities of love, openness, and gentleness were too deeply enmeshed with qualities of dependency, subservience, and masochism."

He adds that men, likewise, are confused:

"What is it they want from a woman? Are they at fault? Are they perpetrating this man-woman situation? Are they oppressors?"

One way to read the essay is that Sanders was doing (in a supremely ham-handed way) what journalists do every day: draw the reader in with an attention-getting lede, then get to the meat of the article in the middle. Though he only sticks to his larger point for three paragraphs before getting back to his fictional couple, ending the essay with an imagined conversation:

"And she said, 'You wanted me not as a woman, or a lover, or a friend, but as a submissive woman, or submissive friend, or submissive lover...' "And he said, 'You're full of ______.' "And they never again made love together (which they had each liked to do more than anything) or never saw each other one more time."

What has the Sanders campaign said?

The Sanders campaign quickly tried to distance itself — and the candidate — from the 43-year-old essay. Campaign spokesman Michael Briggs called the essay a "dumb attempt at dark satire in an alternative publication" in an interview with CNN, adding that it "in no way reflects his views or record on women." He added, "It was intended to attack gender stereotypes of the '70s, but it looks as stupid today as it was then."

So what does this say about Sanders' attitude toward women?

You can draw divergent conclusions from the article itself. On the one hand, he's talking about liberating people from harmful gender norms. On the other, with his nameless hypothetical "man-and-woman" characters, he also seems to imply that men fantasize about raping women or that women fantasize about being raped.

The 2016 presidential field has been quiet about it, but conservative Erick Erickson jeered at Sanders supporters on Twitter.

Meanwhile, Bill Kristol and Town Hall's Katie Pavlich turned the essay on Bill Clinton, using it as an opening to mention past allegations of sexual misconduct on his part.

National Review writer Charles C.W. Cooke, though, dismissed the essay as insignificant:

"Nobody honestly believes that Bernie Sanders is a sexual pervert or that he is a misogynist or that he intends to do women any harm. Nobody suspects that he harbors a secret desire to pass intrusive legislation or to cut gang rapists a break. Really, there is only one reason that anyone would make hay of this story, and that is to damage the man politically."

Rather than criticize Sanders for something he wrote long ago, Cooke added, "until I see any sign of actual wrongdoing I'd much prefer to slam Sanders for his dangerous and ridiculous politics than to delve back into his past and embarrass him with a long-forgotten opinion."

Looking at his political life, it's true that Sanders' record shows an ongoing concern for women's rights. Katie McDonough at left-leaning Salon.com compiled a list of measures Sanders has supported or sponsored to protect women from violence and sexual assault.

Are there any lessons to draw from this?

Absolutely: if you're a politician — especially on the national level — everything you've ever written, said, or done can, and likely will, be dredged up for all the world to inspect and critique.

It's not the first time writings from long ago have resurfaced to be used against a candidate. Republican Bob McDonnell's 20-year-old thesis about his views on women was also used as a cudgel against him in his bid for governor of Virginia in 2009.

When Louisiana Republican Gov. Bobby Jindal's name began to surface as a potential vice-presidential candidate in 2012, the political world began writing about his 1994 essay about an exorcism he says he witnessed. (See here and here.) That, by the way, is sure to come up again if he runs in 2016 or any time in the future.

Many candidates have also faced plagiarism charges, like Democratic Sen. John Walsh of Montana, who dropped out of his re-election race last year after the New York Times reported he had lifted portions of the final paper he wrote to get his master's degree.

Vice President Joe Biden admitted in 1987 to cribbing a speech from a British politician, but said it wasn't "malevolent." In 2008, the Clinton campaign accused Barack Obama of lifting lines from his friend, then-Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick.

And then there are the countless officials who have been embarrassed in the media for sexual impropriety, including the aforementioned Bill Clinton. Eliot Spitzer. Anthony Weiner. David Vitter. John Ensign. Chris Lee. Vito Fossella. Mark Foley. Dennis Hastert.

It's not just elected officials — consider the flap over past comments in which now-Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor described herself as a "wise Latina." It's not plagiarism or an affair, but it created a headache for her during confirmation hearings.

The scrutiny is part of why so many people want nothing to do with the white hot spotlight that comes with running for office.

-------

http://www.inquisitr.com/3371682/bernie-sanders-is-a-career-politician-not-a-revolutionary
BERNIE SANDERS IS A CAREER POLITICIAN, NOT A REVOLUTIONARY
As the presidential election heats up and becomes more acrimonious, Bernie Sanders supporters seem more committed than ever to getting their so-called “revolutionary” candidate elected. Many online campaigns have sprung up similar to the #feelthebern trending topic, and they specifically call for Bernie Sanders to be written into the November election ballot as a third-party candidate. Sanders’ supporters claim that their candidate — unlike the Democratic candidate, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the Republican candidate, Donald Trump — is a revolutionary candidate who will make good on his campaign promises, who cannot be bought by special interest groups, and who will be the very “change” that Barack Obama promised nearly eight years ago. But are their claims of Bernie Sanders being a revolutionary actually true?

#3#One of the first things to point out about Bernie Sanders is that, despite his sneering to the New York Times, is indeed a career politician — just like Hillary Clinton.#3# He has been involved in politics, at various levels, for more than 30 years, and no matter how grumpy his demeanor is — or how many strawman arguments he makes opposing that statement — it doesn’t take away from the facts of the matter. He began his political career in 1981, as the mayor of Burlington, Vermont, where he served until 1989. In 1991, he was elected to the House of Representatives, where he remained until 2006, when he was elected to the Senate. In fact, he is currently serving in the Senate, making this year the 34th year that he’s been in some form of public office and living off of taxpayer dollars. To put this in perspective, 34 years ago, Ronald Reagan was President — and this is when Bernie Sanders began his political career.

Bernie Sanders supporters who are willing to admit that their false Messiah is a career politician claim that it’s not his status as a career politician that matters, but rather, his voting record. Furthermore, his supporters claim that his voting record demonstrates that he’s a true revolutionary, because he’s always willing to buck the tide of popular opinion. Mother Jones, however, did extensive research into Sanders’ voting record during his time as a career politician, and they’ve found that Bernie’s supporters claims are simply not true.

You can be a moderate. You can be a progressive. But you cannot be a moderate and a progressive. — Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) February 3, 2016

Mother Jones discovered that many of the measures Clinton voted in favor of during her time in the Senate — on matters such as immigration, crime, and foreign policy (specifically, Guantanamo Bay) — got the same vote from the “progressive” Bernie Sanders. So, when Clinton was a colleague — and not an opponent — he thought the same way she did, voted the same way she did, and fought for the same policies that she did — but now that he seeks the highest office in the land, he takes to throwing shade at Clinton on Twitter (much like a high school girl), rather than engaging in rigorous and intelligent debate, the way a true revolutionary would. Donald Trump may be a bloviating, pompous idiot on Twitter, but that’s his whole platform — in fact, he revels in being the court jester on the world’s stage. What’s Bernie Sanders’ excuse?

Finally, but certainly no less importantly, writing Bernie Sanders’ name in as a third-party candidate isn’t going to effect the change his supporters claim that they want. The Huffington Post did an amazing job with explaining why this is so, and simply put: your vote for a third-party candidate is going to have the opposite effect on the overall scheme of things.

“If this Republican National Convention has taught me anything, it is that I’d forever regret not doing everything in my power to prevent the party of Abraham Lincoln from being smothered into oblivion by a Donald Trump presidency,” writes Paul Richardson.

So, Bernie Sanders supporters: please don’t fool yourselves into thinking that you are like the counterculture of the 1960s, trying to change the world with a revolutionary way of thinking. Rather, Bernie Sanders’ supporters are just supporting the same oligarchy that they claim to oppose — and they’re even more dangerous than anyone else, because if they succeed in what they plan to do, Donald Trump will win the presidency.

[Photo by Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images]

-------

http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/06/2016-bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-democrats-race-racial-divide-213948
HOW BERNIE SANDERS EXPOSED THE DEMOCRATS’ RACIAL RIFT
Donald Trump is on the verge of locking in a racial deficit within the Republican Party that GOP officials won’t overcome for at least a generation, as he systematically alienates Latinos, African-Americans and anyone worried about the powerful undercurrent of white anger on display at his rallies.

But as his racial gaffes have claimed the spotlight, far less appreciated is what has been happening in the opposing party. Democrats face their own racial split that could haunt the party well into the future if it isn’t handled properly now.

Story Continued Below

Though it might offend his uber-progressive supporters to hear this, the Sanders insurgency is largely a white revolution. All the talk about Sanders representing the future of the Democratic Party because of his overwhelming popularity among young people leaves out an important caveat: He couldn’t persuade minority voters to sign on. In many ways a Sanders victory, propelled by the least diverse states in the nation, would have been a step backward in American race relations. Now that Hillary Clinton has laid claim convincingly to the nomination with decisive wins in California and New Jersey, the party—and Bernie’s supporters—are at a crossroads. If they insist on maintaining their purist divide from Clinton, they will create a rift in the party that’s not just ideological, but racial.

Barring an asteroid strike that extinguishes life on Earth, the American electorate will be much more diverse in coming elections than it is today, especially the portion of it that Democrats plan to rely on. There are now more non-white than white babies being born every year, and the under-18 crowd is close to reaching majority-minority status as well. That’s the Democrats’ greatest potential strength, which grows only more pronounced the closer Trump comes to being officially named the GOP nominee.

But it’s also a fault line. Sanders coming from seemingly nowhere to seriously challenge Clinton while drawing historically large and enthusiastic crowds has soaked up much of the attention in the Democratic race, making it feel as though he’s hit a chord that resonates throughout the party. #4#But his brand of idealism has been rejected by the majority of minority voters—Clinton won every contest with at least a 10 percent black population, except Michigan, and each state where Latinos make up at least 10 percent of eligible voters, except Colorado, according to Harry Enten of FiveThirtyEight.com.#4# On top of that, they have been mocked by some Sanders supporters for supposedly “voting against their self-interest” because they refuse to believe a political revolution is at hand. That has been particularly galling to black voters who had to endure claims from conservatives in 2008 that they were voting for Barack Obama only because of race—even though they had spent their entire adult lives voting mostly for white presidential candidates. Now their preference for Clinton’s brand of pragmatism, something they’ve seen result in real progress time and again, is being questioned as well, this time by fellow Democrats.

Read any number of pieces analyzing the Democratic race and it becomes clear just how unaware the party is about the racial land mines. They present data showing a racial divide within Democratic ranks but discount it, displaying a kind of wishful thinking indicative of those who don’t fully appreciate the power of race to shape relationships.

Jonathan Chait came closest to recognizing the looming problem in a piece that was published in early April, detailing why black voters are pragmatists:

“That refusal to accept the necessity of compromise in a winner-take-all two-party system (and an electorate in which conservatives still outnumber liberals) is characteristic of a certain idealistic style of left-wing politics. Its conception of voting as an act of performative virtue has largely confined itself to white left-wing politics, because it is at odds with the political tradition of a community that has always viewed political compromise as a practical necessity. The expectation that a politician should agree with you on everything is the ultimate expression of privilege.”

As perceptive as that analysis is, it fails to fully account for the racial divide. The tensions within the party aren’t only about purity vs. pragmatism; they have to do with how life is lived and perceived. And though millennials aren’t stuck in the mud on race the way the generations that came before them can be—in large part because they don’t have scars from the 20th century's contentious civil rights battles—they are not ushering the country into a post-racial age as some have claimed.

People of color, like their white Democratic counterparts, may also want a revolution and more rapid progress than the halting kind that comes with pragmatism, but they’ve time and again seen incremental change improve their lives. That’s why they embrace Martin Luther King Jr. without question while revering Malcolm X from a distance. That’s why they are much more enthusiastic about the Affordable Care Act—which has helped minority Americans the most— than white progressives who have either been lukewarm or, in some cases, even hostile to health reform because they don’t believe it was radical enough.

Minority voters are more likely than white Democratic voters to giddily give Obama credit for an economic recovery that has shaved the unemployment rate in half, produced the lowest level of jobless claims since the ‘70s, and an unprecedented monthly job creation streak that has lasted more than six years, all coming on the heels of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. And he got Osama bin Laden, saved the domestic auto industry, ushered through the largest economic stimulus in history—one derisively dismissed as too small by many liberals—and the first significant Wall Street reform in a generation, while advancing gay rights like no president before him despite the initial reluctance by his numerous religious black voters to embrace same sex marriage.

Why? Because many white Democratic voters missed the sentiment shared among black Obama voters in 2008 that, once again, the “first black” was being handed a seemingly impossible task—two ground wars, a collapsing economy, a record deficit—and if he wasn’t able to perform a miracle, it would not only be his failure, but that of black people in general. To downplay what he has been able to achieve despite the obstacles, which also included an unprecedented level of obstruction from the GOP, confirms a fear shared by many people of color—Democratic or otherwise—that no matter what they achieve, it will never be enough. Sanders and Susan Sarandon may sincerely believe things are so awful only a revolution can heal the country’s ills. But their overwrought rhetoric, and no more than lukewarm support of Obama’s accomplishments, taps into that deeply-held frustration among minorities.

That’s why, despite what looks like intractable problems to white Democrats, minority voters are more optimistic about the future than their white counterparts. That Obama was able to become president and get stuff done is an enormous source of not only pride, but hope. The Kaiser Family Foundation found that more than half of young black and Latinos believe their lives will be better than their parents, compared with less than a third of young white people. On many measures, black people have seen much worse days—the black unemployment rate neared 17 percent at the height of the Great Recession and is less than half that now—even as they continue fighting decades-long struggles. Things aren’t perfect, but the progress that has occurred during the Obama era isn’t something they want ignored or downplayed. Given that reality, why would they believe in the need for a revolution?

That’s why Clinton’s full embrace of Obama during the campaign and her promise to improve, not dismantle, his policies was political brilliance in a Democratic primary in which a candidate can’t expect to win without a large share of the minority vote. The only way so many talented writers and political observers could miss the racial divide within the Democratic Party this election cycle is to either ignore the overwhelming data, or to forget (or pretend) that young, minority Democratic voters don’t exist.

Nate Silver at FiveThirtyEight.com has shown that Clinton’s victories look much more like the Democratic Party—which, with a projected 54 percent white vote this year, will be majority-minority long before the country is—than do Sanders’ wins. Even in Sanders’ upset in Michigan, pundits were claiming he had made a breakthrough with black voters because he lost them only by 35 percent points. And exit polling data in Nevada that showed him edging Clinton among Hispanics is widely suspected to be wrong, given where Clinton racked up votes in that state.

Think about this. According to Reuters/Ipsos polling in February, the Vermont senator received his strongest support among black voters from those aged 18-29—but only a third of that group backed him. That’s right. For all the talk about Sanders’ unqualified young voter support, Clinton had a double-digit lead among the youngest black voters nationwide.

Data from the Pew Research Center underscores the importance of not confusing white young voters for all young voters. It found that nearly 60 percent of Hispanics are either millennials or younger. The same can be said of half of black Americans and 46 percent of Asian-Americans, compared with only 39 percent of white Americans. Each of those groups may be turned off by Trump and have more sympathetic views of #BlackLivesMatter than their parents, but that should not be mistaken for lock-step agreement on some of the most vexing issues we face. Research shows that white millennials’ views on important racial measures—believing that blacks are lazier and worse off financially because of lack of motivation—is eerily similar to their parents and grandparents, though they are less likely to proclaim it publicly. That will have a direct impact on policy decisions going forward.

The racial blind spots evident among otherwise perceptive pundits and Democratic officials reminds me of the “Friends” era. That comedy dominated TV, fueled mostly by white viewers, while one of the top shows among black viewers at the same time was “Girlfriends” on BET. White viewers could list the quirks of Elaine and George on “Seinfeld” in rapid fire succession as black viewers wondered about the latest shenanigans of Cole and Bruh Man on “Martin.” Neither group knew much about popular telenovelas on Univision or noticed the lack of Asian-American leads on the highest-rated network shows.

The Kaiser Family Foundation found that roughly 68 percent of young white people socialize with mostly or only white people while about two-thirds of young blacks and Latinos report they have a more diverse set of friends and acquaintances. But a fragmented viewership framed by racial divides is less concerning than is a fragmented vision within a major political party.

Obama saved the party from having to cope with that reality in 2008 because his liberalism was more liberal than Clinton’s, at least it was perceived to be. That attracted young white voters, as Sanders is doing this year. But he also had minority voters excited.

Clinton, for all of her supposed faults, has run a campaign so tactically effective she has been able to pull together a coalition similar to Obama’s. This may be even more impressive than what Obama accomplished given that she is the ultimate insider in an anti-establishment year. The things that have convinced white progressives, and a handful of high-profile black intellectuals and personalities, that she isn’t worthy of the nomination have not turned off minority voters, young or old.

She’s been so effective this year probably because she couldn’t ignore the racial divide during her bruising primary battle with Obama. In some ways, she exploited that divide. As she fell behind in 2008, she began talking about “hard-working white Americans” while her husband downplayed Obama’s important victory in South Carolina, where more than half of the Democratic primary voters are black. History has repeated itself, with Sanders and his surrogates seemingly dismissing the results in the South—a region that is home to a majority (54 percent) of black Americans. (The Northeast, by comparison, is home to 18 percent of black Americans.)

After Sanders tried but couldn’t connect with enough minority voters—despite the best efforts of Cornel West, Michelle Alexander, Spike Lee and Rosario Dawson, among others—his campaign began focusing mostly on white voters to win the nomination the way Clinton tried to do eight years ago. While the GOP’s effort to turn out more white voters because it has failed to make the party more palatable to minority voters gets the most attention, the two strongest challengers within the Democratic Party during the past two contested primary cycles essentially tried to do the same. That should be more troubling for a party that is supposedly embracing diversity than a party that lost its hold on the minority vote half a century ago.

The evidence of the racial divide lies even within the general election matchup polls Sanders and his supporters love to cite. He leads in a potential matchup with Trump by a larger margin than does Clinton. But that’s largely because Clinton’s minority voters would eagerly back Sanders as the Democratic nominee. Latinos hold a similar rate of favorability for Clinton and Sanders and would vote for either Democrat against Trump in nearly the same percentage, according to a poll by Latino Decisions.

Minority voters have been watching in horror as millions of Republican voters choose Trump either because of, or despite, his open bigotry. The Sanders supporters who toy with the idea of shunning Clinton in November and allowing Trump to become president to force a revolution that Sanders couldn’t deliver are playing with fire. To minority voters, Trump’s candidacy feels like an existential threat. It’s one thing for Republicans to either ignore or embrace his racism; the party already seems unwilling or incapable of making the kinds of adjustments it must to attract more non-white voters. It’s quite another for white Democrats to not appreciate how liberal minorities feel about the possibility of a Trump presidency and what that would say about the state of racial progress in America. It would be a slap in the face, the latest sign that a kind of white privilege—throwing a temper tantrum because they don’t get their way despite how much it hurts people of color—is deeply rooted within liberal, Democratic ranks as well.

Even if Sanders supporters come around to vigorously try to defeat Trump, as most expect to happen come November, the racial reckoning would only have been delayed. The GOP has whiffed on the emerging racial dynamics of the country because it seems stuck in a defensive crouch, borne of having to weather (oftentimes) unfair and exaggerated claims of racism. But the GOP remains willfully blind to the racial angst that animates too many in its party, or the disparate racial impact of some of the party’s signature policies, such as voter ID laws, and the hostility its base has for comprehensive immigration reform.

But Republican vulnerabilities are not automatically Democratic strengths. Democrats may end up whiffing on this issue, too, because the party may succumb to the myth that an increase in diversity is a balm for deep, racial wounds that date back to before this country’s founding. Diversity, they should realize, brings its own set of problems and tensions.

Many Sanders supporters believed his push to regulate Wall Street and solve economic inequality would resonate with minority voters. It didn’t because minority voters know that liberal policies alone won’t reverse decades of racial inequalities. They have been loyal members of liberal unions where white Democrats received plush jobs, even if they were no more qualified than their black colleagues. They’ve seen the same thing in liberal Hollywood and the supposedly liberal world of the media, whose top ranks remain mostly white.

Even though the senator from Vermont began speaking about criminal justice and other types of racial reform, minority voters weren’t convinced he would make those policies a priority. Democrats can waste time debating why minority voters should have connected better with Sanders—and get caught in a condescending discussion about why white Sanders supporters know what’s better for minority voters than minorities do themselves—or they can begin the more difficult work of coming up with strategies to deal with a divide that will show itself in a more pronounced and public way once Trump exits stage left.

Issac Bailey is a columnist at the Sun News in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. He’s the author of Proud. Black. Southern. (But I Still Don’t Eat Watermelon in front of White People). He was a 2014 Neiman Fellow.

-------

http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/08/politics/first-exit-polls-2016/
EXIT POLLS: CLINTON FAILS TO ENERGIZE AFRICAN-AMERICANS, LATINOS AND THE YOUNG
This story will be updated repeatedly as new exit poll data comes in.

(CNN) #5#Donald Trump's tough talk about Latinos and African-Americans failed to send enough voters in these groups into the arms of Hillary Clinton.#5#

Some 88% of black voters supported Clinton, versus 8% for Trump, who said repeatedly that black communities are in the worst shape ever.

While that's a large margin, it's not as big as President Barack Obama's victory over Mitt Romney in 2012. Obama locked up 93% of the black vote to Romney's 7%.

Clinton's hold over Latinos was even more tenuous, despite Trump accusing undocumented immigrants of being criminal aliens and promising to deport them.

Only 65% of Latinos supported her, while 29% cast their votes for Trump. In 2012, Obama won 71% of the Hispanic vote, while Romney secured 27%.

Clinton also failed to capture as many young voters, who flocked to her rival Bernie Sanders in the primary and to Obama four years ago.

She won 54% of voters age 18 to 29, compared to 37% who cast ballots for Trump. But Obama secured 60% of these young voters to Romney's 37%.

-- As of 11:45 p.m.

Rust belt states agree with Trump that trade costs jobs

Donald Trump made trade a key message in his campaign. He promised to bring back the manufacturing jobs that he said were lost to trade deals.

Large shares of voters in key rust belt states key to Hillary Clinton's electoral map agreed with Trump's view that trade agreements have hurt American workers. And they overwhelmingly supported the billionaire businessman at the ballot box.

Half of Michigan's electorate feel trade takes away jobs, and these folks supported Trump by a 57% to 36% split. The 31% who think it creates jobs backed Clinton by a 65% to 31% margin.

In Ohio, 47% of voters say trade hurts workers, and they lined up for Trump by a more than 2-to-1 margin. The 46% who say it creates jobs or has no effect strongly backed Clinton.

And in Pennsylvania, 53% of the electorate agree that trade is bad for jobs. Some 62% supported Trump, while 34% backed Clinton. Among the 35% who feel trade is a job creator, Clinton was the favored candidate by more than a 2-to-1 margin.

--As of 10:19 p.m.

Few Michigan voters feel job situation is getting worse

Michigan was hit hard by the Great Recession and the shift of manufacturing jobs overseas. But the economy has improved there in recent years.

Some 39% of voters said that the job situation in their area is better than four years ago and 36% said it was about the same. Only one-quarter said it was worse.

Hillary Clinton handily won the vote of those who feel things have improved, by a 73% to 21% margin, and more narrowly among those who think the situation is about the same, by a 46% to 44% split.

But some 70% of those with a more dour view voted for Donald Trump, compared to 21% for his Democratic rival.

Some 37% of Michigan voters feel their family's financial situation has improved, and they overwhelmingly supported Clinton.

However, those who felt their finances are the same cast their votes for Trump, by a 49% to 41% margin. Just under a quarter think their situation have worsened, and they were in the Trump camp.

-- As of 9:37 p.m.

More college educated and people of color voting in Florida

Florida remains too close to project at the moment, but it is already clear from early exit poll data that more college educated residents and people of color came out to vote this year in the Sunshine State compared to 2012.

College graduates made up 52% of Florida voters this year, compared to 48% in 2012. And while college grads generally are thought to favor Clinton, they were evenly divided in Florida.

Some 61% of voters were white this year, compared to 67% four years ago. Another 15% were black, up from 13%, and 18% were Hispanic , compared to 17% in 2012.

Whites favored Trump by a 62% to 34% margin, while blacks supported Clinton by an 84% to 7% split and Hispanics by a 62% to 33% vote.

Barack Obama won Florida four years ago.

-- As of 8:24 p.m.

Voters split on change vs. experience

Let's dig down into two key states, Virginia and Georgia, where the polls closed at 7 p.m. ET.

In Virginia, four in 10 of voters were looking for a change candidate, and those voters selected Donald Trump by a 79% to 15% split.

About a quarter of the electorate wanted a candidate with the right experience. Among these poll-goers, Clinton took 89% of the vote, while Trump received 8%.

And about one in five voters said having good judgment is the most important quality in a candidate. Among these folks, Clinton captured 67% of the vote and Trump got 24%.

In Georgia, just over a quarter of the electorate was angry with the federal government , and 41% were dissatisfied. These folks favored Trump by a 77% to 17% margin for the former, and 51% to 41% for the latter.

A quarter of Peach State voters were satisfied. They backed Clinton by 81% to 14%.

As of 7:30 p.m.

Voters Scared and concerned if either Trump or Clinton wins

More than half of the nation's voters would feel concerned or scared if either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump are elected, according to early exit polls.

Some 58% of the electorate said they would feel this way if Trump wins, while 53% would be concerned or scared if Clinton comes out on top.

Only 39% would be excited or optimistic about a Trump presidency and 43% about another Clinton in the White House.

Also, voters generally don't like either candidate.

Some 54% of the electorate have an unfavorable opinion of Clinton, while 61% have a similar view of Trump.

Their favorability ratings come in at 44% for Clinton and 37% for Trump.

Trump's treatment of women did not sit well with many voters. Some 71% said it bothers them.

Meanwhile, 62% said that Clinton's use of private email bothers them.

-- As of 7:25 p.m.

More Latinos, Asians voting

The nation's electorate is getting a little less white.

Some 70% of voters Tuesday were white, compared with 72% four years ago. The share of black voters also slipped to 12%, down from 13%.

Meanwhile, the Latino voting population ticked up to 11%, from 10%, and the Asian to 4%, from 3%.

-- As of 6 p.m.

Voters like their candidate

Throughout the campaign, many Americans said they would have to choose between the lesser of two evils . But when it came time to go to the polls, 42% of voters said they strongly favor their candidate.

Only 25% said their vote was based on the dislike of the other options. Another 31% said they like their candidate, but they have reservations.

-- As of 6:10 p.m.

Voters made decision before September

Voters made up their mind whom to vote for a long time ago, according to early exit poll data.

Some 62% of voters decided before September whom their candidate would be. Another 26% decided in either September or October.

But only 12% decided over the past week or in the last few days. This suggests that the recent revelations of the FBI reopening and then closing its investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails and Donald Trump's "locker room" talk and accusations of inappropriate sexual behavior did not have much impact on Americans as they went to the polls.

--As of 5:30 p.m.

Voters not excited about Clinton or Trump

Not much of a choice.

That's how many voters feel about this year's presidential candidates. Only about four in 10 voters said they would be excited or optimistic about either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump in the White House next year, according to early exit polls.

That contrasts with their view of the current president. Some 54% of voters going to the polls today said they approve of the job Barack Obama is doing as president.

And while there's been lot of talk by Donald Trump about the election being rigged, about eight in 10 said they were at least somewhat confident that the results of the election would be counted accurately.

The economy remains the most important issue for majority of voters, but Americans were about evenly split on which candidate would better handle the economy.

Having a change candidate is the top priority for about four in 10 voters, but just over one in five said they wanted a candidate with experience or judgment.

-- As of 5 p.m.

-------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/06/06/racial-anxiety-is-a-huge-driver-of-support-for-donald-trump-two-new-studies-find/
TWO NEW STUDIES FIND RACIAL ANXIETY IS THE BIGGEST DRIVER OF SUPPORT FOR TRUMP


People cheer as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a rally at the San Jose Convention Center in California on Thursday. (Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images)

#6#Observers trying to understand Donald Trump's rise have traditionally pointed to two separate but equal drivers of the GOP presidential candidate's popularity: economic and racial anxieties.#6#

As David Roberts wrote in Vox at the end of last year: "Are Trump supporters driven by economic anxiety or racial resentment? Yes."

More recent data is bringing the drivers of Trumpism into sharper focus, and what we're seeing is striking: Racial attitudes may play a larger role in opinions toward Trump than once thought. Economic concerns, on the other hand, don't seem to have as much of an impact on support for Trump.

Two recent studies bear this out. In the first, Hamilton College political scientist Philip Klinkner analyzed data from the 2016 American National Election Study (ANES) survey (a representative sample of 1,200 Americans) to compare feelings and attitudes toward Donald Trump and Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. He explored how economic opinions, racial attitudes and demographic variables predicted an individual's feelings toward Trump and Clinton. He found that one factor was much stronger than the other:

"My analysis indicates that economic status and attitudes do little to explain support for Donald Trump," he wrote for Vox last week. More to the point, "those who express more resentment toward African Americans, those who think the word 'violent' describes Muslims well, and those who believe President Obama is a Muslim have much more positive views of Trump compared with Clinton," Klinkner found.

[Death predicts whether people vote for Donald Trump]

In Klinkner's data, responses to questions such as "Do you think people’s ability to improve their financial well-being is now better, worse, or the same as it was 20 years ago?" and "Compared with your parents, do you think it is easier, harder, or neither easier nor harder for you to move up the income ladder?" had little effect on a person's preference for Trump or Clinton.

But, Klinkner found, racial attitudes were highly determinative:

Moving from the least to the most resentful view of African Americans increases support for Trump by 44 points, those who think Obama is a Muslim (54 percent of all Republicans) are 24 points more favorable to Trump, and those who think the word "violent" describes Muslims extremely well are about 13 points more pro-Trump than those who think it doesn’t describe them well at all.

In March, The Washington Post conducted a similar analysis using data from a national poll co-sponsored with ABC News, comparing Trump's support to the other Republican primary candidates. The survey questions were somewhat more personal than the ones in Klinkner's analysis, asking the Republican and Republican-leaning respondents whether they themselves were struggling economically and whether white people's troubles were a direct result of "preferences for blacks and Hispanics."

Like Klinkner, my colleagues Max Ehrenfreund and Scott Clement found that Trump received a plurality of support — 43 percent — from respondents who expressed racial resentment. But they also found that economic anxiety played a significant role: 40 percent of respondents who said they were struggling gave their support to Trump, far more than any other candidate.

"Those who voiced concerns about white status appeared to be even more likely to support Trump than those who said they were struggling economically," Clement and Ehrenfreund wrote, "but the results did not clearly show which concern was more important among Trump’s coalition."

Some pundits — and even Sen. Bernie Sanders — have hypothesized that the economic anxiety among some Trump supporters might be behind the negative racial attitudes. In a "Face the Nation" interview late last year, Sanders said that "what Trump has done with some success is taken that [economic] anger, taken those fears which are legitimate and converted them into anger against Mexicans, anger against Muslims."

Clement and Ehrenfreund's analysis suggests that's not true for at least some of Trump's backers, who appear to be supporting the candidate simply because of personal financial insecurity or other reasons. In Klinkner's analysis, racial attitudes stood completely on their own as powerful drivers of support for Donald Trump.

[Five surprising things Donald Trump has revealed about America]

New data published by the Pew Research Center last week seems to back up Klinkner's conclusion. "An analysis of 'feeling thermometer' ratings of Trump finds that attitudes about immigration, Islam and racial diversity are strongly associated with Republican voters’ views of the presumptive GOP presidential nominee," Pew's researchers write. "Other political values — including opinions about whether the U.S. economic system is unfair and whether business profits are excessive — are less closely linked to feelings about Trump."

Pew's numbers come from its own nationally representative survey of 4,385 adults, conducted from April to May of this year. Surveyors analyzed the effect of a variety of social, racial and political views, as well as demographic characteristics, to see which had the biggest effect on Republicans' feelings toward Trump. The results of that analysis are in the chart below.



The Pew Research Center

The biggest predictor of Trump support among Republican and Republican-leaning voters was a belief that "the growing number of newcomers from other countries threatens U.S. values." Republicans holding this belief felt 18 points more positively toward Trump, on a 100-point scale, than Republicans who didn't feel this way.

Belief that Islam encourages violence, and that it's "bad" for the country that blacks, Latinos and Asians will someday make up the majority of the population, accounted for eight-point jumps in positive feelings toward Trump.

Identifying strongly as Republican, being male, being older than 50, and not having a college degree were also predictors of Trump support. Among Pew's questions about the economy, the only one that had a statistically significant impact on Trump support was a belief that "businesses make too much profit," which bolstered Trump support by six points.

However, it's important to note that the poll questions in Pew's analysis, like Klinkner's, addressed respondents' views of the economy as a whole, rather than their own financial well-being.

Still, these two new studies do strongly suggest that racial anxiety is a powerful factor driving support for the GOP nominee today.

More from Wonkblog:

A strange but accurate predictor of whether someone supports Donald Trump

I asked psychologists to analyze Trump supporters. This is what I learned.

The bizarre optimism in Donald Trump's theory of the economy

-------

https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos
SOCIOLOGIST: ‘FAITH IS A FAMILY-FRIENDLY FORCE’ FOR AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND LATINOS
“By 2050, a majority of Americans will be minorities. Yet scholars know little about faith and family life among non-white Americans,” said University of Virginia sociologist W. Bradford Wilcox.

But he and collaborator Nicholas H. Wolfinger of the University of Utah have found that African-American and Latino couples who attend church together experience happier relationships and family life. They make the case in their new book, “Soul Mates: Religion, Sex, Love, and Marriage Among African Americans and Latinos” – the first study of religion and family life among blacks and Latinos, the authors say.

#7#Faith can furnish a beneficial, sturdy path for African-Americans and Latinos, who tend to face more challenges than other Americans – from racism to poverty, Wilcox and Wolfinger found.#7# Religion doesn’t offer a magic pill for successful living, but church participation is clearly associated with positive outcomes in relationships and family life. This bears out even in the midst of lower marriage rates and higher cohabiting rates among blacks and Latinos, as well as among whites.

Pursuing the question “Is religion achieving success in creating the conditions where relationships, marriages and families can flourish in black and Latino communities?” Wilcox and Wolfinger analyzed six national data sets and conducted more than a hundred interviews in several cities. They included information from Wilcox’s year (2005-2006) of fieldwork in Harlem, Brooklyn and the Bronx, during which time he visited churches and spoke with clergy and parishioners.

“One big reason so many families of color are thriving is that they tend to be more religious than the average American,” said Wilcox, director of the National Marriage Project. An estimated 50,000 congregations serve blacks and Latinos in the United States, where 36 percent of African-Americans and 29 percent of Latinos attend church frequently (several times a month or more).

“Our book shows that churches are achieving an important measure of success in fostering lower rates of non-marital childbearing, more marriage, and happier relationships among blacks and Latinos,” the authors write. Unmarried churchgoers are also more likely to get married compared to similar couples who do not regularly darken the door of a church, they write.

When it comes to “family values,” a clear majority of blacks and Latinos value marriage more than single living, and most will marry at some point in their lives. In fact, 56 percent of blacks and 68 percent of Latinos feel it is better to be married than to be single, compared to 54 percent of whites. Wilcox and Wolfinger consider social, cultural, historical and economic factors that help and hinder marriage and its stability.

“Soul Mates” found that 80 percent of Latinos report being happy in their relationships when both partners attend church, compared to 71 percent for Latino couples who don’t go to church. With black couples, 78 percent who attended church reported being happy while the figure for non-church going couples drops to 69 percent. (The figures for white couples are 79 percent and 70 percent, respectively.)

Another point Wilcox emphasized is the influence of religion on men.

He and Wolfinger argue that “shared faith supplies moral, social and spiritual solidarity and that religion seems especially important in turning men’s hearts and minds toward their wives or partners.” Churches foster an ethic of care and reinforce a code of decency, they write.

They define “code of decency” as “hard work, lawful behavior, temperance, and sexual fidelity in married and unmarried relationships.”

“Religious faith makes for better men,” Wilcox said. “Black and Latino men who attend church are more likely to be employed, to steer clear of substance abuse, and to avoid incarceration. This men’s effect lends indirect support to higher quality family relationships among black and Latino families.” In fact, young men of color are about 30 percent less likely to end up idle (out of work and out of school) if they are regular churchgoers, compared to their peers who are not regular churchgoers.

Because of these findings, the authors conclude that religion is a family-friendly force among African-Americans and Latinos.

-------

