Arguably, we are already undergoing a mass  extinction event. #1#If you look at the short timescale human civilization has existed from a geological perspective, thousands of species have already gone extinct or been driven out of their principle ranges in what is basically an instant.#1# This is known as the holocene extinction

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction

Now, it seems you are holding the human species itself is going to go extinct and quite possible most life on earth. I find this to be pretty unlikely. Humans are, bar none, the most adaptable vertebrates to ever exist. Some of us routinely live in areas that we have no business living in such as in Antarctica or thousands of feet below the arctic ice sheets. Even the most extreme projections of climate change that project the earth being reduced to Mars would be unlikely to happen quickly enough for human to not be able to find an engineering solution to keep (some of) ourselves and probably a significant portion of the genetic diversity on the planet around. Society as we know it might collapse in this extreme example, but the future of human civilization or the hope of a renewed ecological system on the planet won't necessarily be gone. 

That being said, I don't think the Earth will ever get that bad. As it stands, even with what may seem to be advances that are "too slow" to many people, humans civilization is actually quite concerned about the environment, and have taken enormous steps in the past 20 years in terms of advancing technologies that would enable a sustainable society. Even people who completely deny climate change don't generally have a huge problem with building sustainable energy systems or societal practices especially when they become economically competitive with fossil fuels. I have seen many people myself whose views on climate change and renewable energy and practices have warmed over the past decade. 

And in the case of a nuclear war, I don't think a large scale nuclear conflict would actually lead to extinction of life or even even human civilization. Already, many thousands of nukes have been detonated. Only a couple thousand more could be added to that list in terms of a total nuclear war. Most of those would be airbursted over cities which would significantly limits fallout effects (and maximize destruction). The overall amount of debris would be much, much less than say the K-T extinction event and maybe comparable to certain volcanic explosions, all of which life has managed to persevere through. It would be quite bad, and may render certain areas unlivable at its worst, but probably won't threaten overall life on earth.

Edit: Also, it seems you are concerned about our food base just dying off. That is certainly a danger, but I think it is very likely that humans develop a reliable way of turning inorganic carbon/water into food at a large scale within a hundred years and probably less. All the chemistry is there to make that possible. 

