"Smug mocking" is not a short term strategy, but a long-term one. You're sort of missing the forest for the trees: what you see as a tactic for winning, I see as a tactic for social change. Think about it for a second. Why did public health campaigns against smoking work? They worked because the message was *ubiquitous* and *clear*: it's advertising 101, and as a Trump supporter you of all people should recognize that since Trump is a master of this (i.e. advertising himself to people with a clear message, expressing contempt for the "right" people [e.g. the system/status quo], etc). 

The "smugness" and "condescension" are a much broader cultural strategy. Ben Shapiro talks a lot about this, if you're interested in the quasi-intellectual (it's not a scholarly argument, which is why I say 'quasi'; that's not a dig at him at all, or I would have said 'pseudo') argument about this from a conservative angle. We witnessed during this election only a snapshot of a broader cultural strategy to make some things fashionable and other things unfashionable. e.g. You don't want transgender rights? "ugh, so backwards and [insert contemptuous language here]". 

I hate to break it to you, but the strategy seems to be working. Younger generations are much more "politically correct" than older generations, in part because of the social pressure generated by this cultural strategy. Gay marriage is the law of the land, for crying out loud--surely you don't attribute that to anything other than a broad, systematic shift in cultural attitudes (it seems to have gone from "Gay marriage is fundamentally bad for our society" to "Live and let live, but don't tread on my right to still personally believe it's immoral [see cases about catering gay weddings, for example]". That's a powerful shift, and I think it has to do with the fact that society has put pressure on those who opposed Gay marriage by making moral arguments against them (which often feel cruel, condescending, etc). 

And that's the fundamental point, I think. When it's a moral argument, there's almost always "smugness; condescension; shaming; and cruelty". This is because morality is not rational: all morality is based on assumptions whether we want to admit it or not, and so once we start having disagreements about those assumptions, there's nothing left to rationally argue about. This results in a tautological cycle where we use morality to argue morality: 

*("You're a bad human being for believing in this bad morality". "Why does that make me a bad human being?" "Because you believe in that bad morality". "But how do you know it makes me bad?" "Because only bad people can believe in that bad morality". etc. etc. ad nauseum)*.  

The truth is that this tactic is working quite well. Shaming and social manipulation generally is one of the single best ways we have of keeping our fellow human beings in line with things that are otherwise not necessarily objectively provable. Since so much of our lives are governed by these non-objective things, this is a ubiquitous phenomenon. If you don't believe me, try going to one of those young-people religious lectures in a college campus. You know the ones I'm talking about: the bubbly, excited Christians who invite the "young, cool, hip preacher" to encourage people to keep their faith. Go there and try to engage the preacher in a rational discussion: you'll find *immediate* condescension; smugness; and dismissal-through-humor tactics, because that's how the message sinks in. It's a tactic of social shaming and control, and don't make the mistake of believing it does not work. 

What you are seeing from liberals is a socio-cultural tactic of broad, large-scale cultural scale. The backlash to this change is only a symptom of the underlying process.#1# Political Science research has shown, for example, that [increased and severe terrorist attacks can be a sign of weakening rather than strengthening]#1#(http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2016/05/19/isis-attacks-abroad-sign-weakness/). Harsh backlash should be viewed very carefully; I contend that this harsh backlash of Trump is masking an underlying phenomenon, which is that liberals have been "winning" the culture games for the past several decades. Whether this trend continues is anyone's guess, but you should not think of these otherwise manipulative social tactics you're decrying are part of a short-term electoral strategy. Rather, they are part of a much larger, longer-scale cultural strategy--and make no mistake about it, they are working exactly as they are supposed to. 

