

http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/
HOW HALF OF AMERICA LOST ITS F**KING MIND
"But Trump is objectively a piece of shit!" you say. "He insults people, he objectifies women, and cheats whenever possible! And he's not an everyman; he's a smarmy, arrogant billionaire!"

Wait, are you talking about Donald Trump, or this guy:

Marvel Studios

Make The Avengers Assemble Again.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

#1#You've never rooted for somebody like that? Someone powerful who gives your enemies the insults they deserve? Somebody with big fun appetites who screws up just enough to make them relatable? Like Dr. House or Walter White? Or any of the several million renegade cop characters who can break all the rules because they get shit done? Who only get shit done because they don't care about the rules?#1#

"But those are fictional characters!" Okay, what about all those millionaire left-leaning talk show hosts? You think they keep their insults classy? Tune into any bit about Chris Christie and start counting down the seconds until the fat joke. Google David Letterman's sex scandals. But it's okay, because they're on our side, and everybody wants an asshole on their team -- a spiked bat to smash their enemies with. That's all Trump is. The howls of elite outrage are like the sounds of bombs landing on the enemy's fortress. The louder the better.

Kevin Winter/Getty Images

And when cameras record said elites BFFing with their supposed enemy, even better.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

Already some of you have gotten angry, feeling this gut-level revulsion at any attempt to excuse or even understand these people. After all, they're hardly people, right? Aren't they just a mass of ignorant, rageful, crude, cursing, spitting subhumans?

Gee, I hope not. I have to hug a bunch of them at Thanksgiving. And when I do, it will be with the knowledge that if I hadn't moved away, I'd be on the other side of the fence, leaving nasty comments on this article the alternate universe version of me wrote.

Cracked

And not just because I reminded Rural Me of Billy Joel's worst song ever.

It feels good to dismiss people, to mock them, to write them off as deplorables. But you might as well take time to try to understand them, because I'm telling you, they'll still be around long after Trump is gone.

David Wong is the Executive Editor of Cracked, his most recent novel is now in development as a TV series and just came out in paperback. Robert Evans googled like a motherfucker for this article. You should buy his book.

The discussion doesn't end here. David talks about this article on this week's episode of the Cracked podcast.

For more from David Wong, check out The Baffling Stories Behind Our Epidemic Of Mass Killers and Why Anxiety Is The Plague Of The Modern World .

Subscribe to our YouTube channel, and check out What Trump Does With His Mouth When He's Not Speaking, and other videos you won't see on the site!

Follow us on Facebook, and give us a big hug, please.

