First off not gonna say either side acted well-behaved, and I apologize for idiots who shouted you down, anyone who called you a "redneck". Idiots who key cars cause there's a Trump sticker, or vandalize political signs. But don't generalize from a few bad experiences. Just like minority but very real Trump supporters who are racists and misogynists don't represent his entire base, they don't represent all of us. Painting either side with that brush is only adding to the schism.

But Trump's entire strategy revolved around bullying, casual racism and xenophobia, and generally creating divisiveness. Alright, maybe the liberals took the bait too hard and that contributed to their own downfall, but see it from their perspective: you have a man who called most Mexicans rapists, most Muslims terrorists, builds a platform on blaming other races for problems, personally insults other candidates during debates, insisted Obama was a foreigner, was literally caught on tape saying he sexually harasses women. And his support seems to eat it up.

> Maybe Trump will not fix everything, but he can at least piss the liberals off. Make them feel some of the pain they make us feel.

This is such a false narrative against this stereotype of all liberals being this comfortable, ivory-tower, East-Coast or SF yuppie who've just been living in luxury while the rest of you suffered. It's exactly what a campaign like Trump's wanted you to think because it drummed up that outrage that fed his support base. 

The average liberal, at least where I am? It's the hard-working Mexican-American who wants a little relief for his family. It's blacks who grew up in crummy neighborhoods who their whole world just seemed to be pushing them down an inescapable cycle of poverty and crime. It's other young white people who took the baby boomer path pushed on them only to find student debt, lack of jobs, and the dreams of things like home-ownership unrealistic in the modern world.

It's people who have felt marginalized for most of their lives, if not for multiple-generations, and Trump built his platform on further distrusting them. And somehow you're surprised they might feel Trump's support base is a little racist?

Now let me backtrack. I understand there's a lot of white, middle America that's been hit hard too. Loss of manufacturing. The whole rust belt. Small towns where service industry isn't a fallback. They're also the marginalized. [This article](http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/), #1#despite being cracked and kinda buzzfeed-y at first glance with the gifs and stuff, actually was real eye-opening on their perspective.#1# But just as he has to admit his views on the cities were manipulated and false, and I have to understand Trump's support is not all Confederate Flag wearing, gun-toting, rednecks -- so do you have to let go of this idea of the pervasive "smug liberal".

And all Trump was doing was puppeting one marginalized group against another. You saying "many of us voted for him just to piss off liberals" is playing right into his hand, same as the other side saying all Trump supporters are racists and sexist. Never that I can remember had a political run on such a division platform. Bush, for all his faults, never insulted a race of people, in fact, despite my dislike of him, he did a great job promoting American unity, especially post 9/11 -- including Muslims. I don't mean just by not saying anything bad about them, he went out of his way to praise them and accept them. Likewise liberal shows may have poked fun of Bush as airheaded, but it was hardly out of line from normal political satire.

So sure, the liberal side maybe took the bait too hard, but so did you.

