> I think we have a clear answer already as to whether past behavior means more to voters than policies.

So in your opinion, the polls are correct about Bernie having had better odds than Trump? Then why weren't the polls correct about  HRC having better odds than Trump?

> Bernie Sander's wasn't a socialist, and it's unlikely the voters would have taken the media any more seriously labeling him that than they did when the media labelled Trump a sexist.

Trump didn't go around saying "I am a sexist." Sanders (maybe mistakenly) openly called himself a socialist, and the GOP will hammer that in. That's pretty hard to get around. And [#1#50% of Americans will not vote for a socialist even if the candidate is otherwise "generally well-qualified."#1# Americans hate socialist candidates more than Muslim, atheist, or gay ones.](http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2016/jan/29/jennifer-granholm/jennifer-granholm-says-americans-would-rather-elec/)

Even if Sanders is closer to a hardline liberal, most voters don't care that much to do independent research. What they will know is that Bernie Sanders has openly declared himself a socialist.

> We have to reevaluate what a traditional campaign is worth in the face of these results.

Bloomberg could never have won. But Bloomberg may allow Trump to win a state like Virginia (where Trump lost by 4.9%), or may himself win a single state, like New York (where Sanders lost by 15.9%). If Bloomberg costs Sanders just 10 electoral votes, Trump wins.

> 



http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2016/jan/29/jennifer-granholm/jennifer-granholm-says-americans-would-rather-elec/
JENNIFER GRANHOLM SAYS AMERICANS WOULD RATHER ELECT AN ATHEIST THAN A SOCIALIST
When a Gallup poll asked about presidential candidate characteristics, "When they get to the question on, 'Would you vote for a socialist,' it is even less popular than voting for atheists."

Is Democrat Bernie Sanders going to suffer in the polls because he calls himself a socialist?

Jennifer Granholm , the former Democratic governor of Michigan and a Hillary Clinton backer , thinks so.

During the Jan. 24 edition of ABC's This Week, she said "the word socialist is a really hard word" for voters.

"Now, I love Bernie Sanders, really, I appreciate the fact that he's bringing out young people. But when you look at that word ‘socialist,’ the Gallup poll did an analysis of what are the characteristics that people would vote for in a president. 'Would you vote for a Mormon?' 'Would you vote for a Jew?' 'Would you vote for a Catholic?' When they get to the question on would you vote for an atheist, it is -- or, excuse me, a socialist, it is even less popular than voting for atheists," Granholm said. "That is why it's an issue."

Because the polls say that Sanders is giving Clinton a run for her money, we wondered whether calling yourself a socialist really carries the type of stigma that Granholm described.

We contacted Granholm's office but didn't hear back.

The Gallup poll in question is a survey of 1,527 adults in June 2015.

#1#The survey found 47 percent of respondents would vote for a socialist presidential candidate nominated by their party even if the candidate was "generally well-qualified." Fifty percent would not.#1#

An atheist candidate would be tolerable to only 58 percent, with 40 percent saying they would not vote for any atheist candidate. Here's the list:

Willingness to vote for a qualified candidate who is . . . a Catholic 93% Jewish 91% a Muslim 60% a woman 92% a Mormon 81% an atheist 58% black 92% gay or lesbian 74% a socialist 47% Hispanic 91% an evangelical Christian 73% Survey taken June 2-7, 2015

In a similar vein, a 2010 Fox News survey found that while only 39 percent of Americans would be comfortable with having an atheist on the Supreme Court, support for a socialist was even lower — 31 percent.

Yet if Americans have such antipathy to socialists, why is Sanders, a self-declared socialist, doing so well?

For one thing, Sanders makes it clear that he's not a socialist in the old Soviet Union sense. He often calls himself a democratic socialist who talks about the type of socialism seen in the Scandinavian countries, where the political system is democratic. His socialism is often in line with what would be considered strong liberal beliefs. PolitiFact explored the issue in detail in August 2015.

Scott Clifford , a political scientist as the University of Houston, said it's important to remember that each person surveyed was "asked not about support for atheists/socialists in general, but in the context of their own party nominating one."

So Democrats will be more open to socialist ideas because the party tends to be liberal, "home to secular Americans," he said.

The Republican Party tends to be home to more evangelicals and other religious traditionalists, Clifford said by email, so Republicans would be naturally wary of a nominee who is a socialist.

"After all, a Republican socialist is effectively an oxymoron in modern American politics," he said.

That was clear when Gallup broke the results into party lines.

Willingness to vote for Democrats Republicans Difference An evangelical Christian 66% 84% 18 points An atheist 64% 45% 19 points A gay or lesbian 85% 61% 24 points A Muslim 73% 45% 28 points A socialist 59% 26% 33 points

John Geer , a political scientist at Vanderbilt University, said there are a lot of misunderstandings about the term socialist, "so the survey questions you have in Gallup are probably not very indicative of the amount of support socialists might have."

The term "socialist" may lose some of its sting because Sanders offers it as a solution to voters’ concerns, such as income inequality, he said.

He is also highlighting the idea that other industrialized countries that have embraced socialism are doing better on matters such as health care, "and people are giving him high marks for dealing with the (socialist) question directly and not trying to hedge," Geer said.

Whether Sanders can change the country's aversion to actually voting for a socialist remains to be seen.

Our ruling

Granholm said a Gallup survey found that the idea of voting for a socialist for president is even less popular than voting for an atheist.

That's precisely what was found in the poll, the first time Gallup has asked about socialist presidential candidates. We rate the claim as True.

Does that matter though? Comey sent one letter that didn't contain any information, and that dominated the headlines for a week, even as he later sent another letter basically saying "nvm". Go to Breitbart.com, peruse it a bit, and then think about what they could creatively come up with to discredit Sanders, especially since it doesn't have to be true. Quibbling over 'socialism' vs. 'democratic socialism' is completely missing the point.

You also mention the debates: after each debate, Clinton had a substantial polling boost, but a few weeks later, all of that was in the back of the mind, gone. A strong showing in the debates would not have helped Sanders any more than it has helped Clinton.

Turnout might have been different, yes, that could have done it. But would it have been enough? Who knows. Additionally, Sanders might have sent more corporate interests, and hence more money, towards Trump. In conservative circles there were a lot of 'Never Trumpers' (obviously not enough to prevent a Trump victory), but with the prospect of Sanders as president many of those dinosaurs could have thrown in their lot with him anyway. It could have further boosted traditional republican turnout (I don't know, someone should look through the exit poll data). Hillary outspent Trump significantly - what would Trump have done with an enormous war chest?

#1#There are many uncertainties, and in the end I do not think it is fair to make confident predictions about what 'could have happened'.#1# [It's sometimes quite nonsensical](http://www.gallup.com/poll/123665/hillary-clinton-more-popular-barack-obama.aspx).



http://www.gallup.com/poll/123665/hillary-clinton-more-popular-barack-obama.aspx
HILLARY CLINTON NOW MORE POPULAR THAN BARACK OBAMA
Secretary of state viewed favorably by 62% of Americans, president by 56%

PRINCETON, NJ -- #1#Hillary Clinton lost the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination to Barack Obama, but in one respect she now ranks ahead of Obama.#1# The president's current favorable rating of 56% is down 22 percentage points since January. Over the same time span, Clinton's favorable rating has changed little, and now, at 62%, it exceeds Obama's.

The results are based on an Oct. 1-4 Gallup survey. The poll was conducted before Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize winner, which could have helped to improve his favorable rating over the 56% measured in the poll; however, it's not clear that any such shift would have lasted. In the first days after the prize's announcement, Obama's presidential job approval rating noticeably increased, but it has since retreated to its prior level.

"Clinton's current favorable rating ranks among her best in the 17 years Gallup has polled Americans about her."

The change in the relative popularity of Clinton and Obama since January may reflect the realities of their new roles. Obama came into office as president with a 78% favorable rating, among the highest Gallup has measured since it began tracking favorability in 1992. But after nearly nine months in office in which he has made or confronted difficult decisions -- ranging from the economic stimulus package, to the auto industry bailout, to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to health insurance reform, Obama's support has declined. His favorable rating now stands at 56%, and has fallen 10 points just since the last reading, in July. (Obama's job approval rating has followed a similar downward trajectory.)

The 56% favorable rating for Obama is his lowest since late 2007, when he had a 53% favorable rating, but at that time, 13% of Americans did not have an opinion of him. The current 40% unfavorable rating for Obama is his highest, and thus his most negative such rating to date.

Meanwhile, Clinton has helped advance Obama's foreign policy around the world, but in a far less prominent role than the president's. Now operating in a much less bright spotlight than Obama does, the former first lady's and U.S. senator's favorable rating remains strong at 62%, little changed since she became secretary of state.

Clinton's current favorable rating ranks among her best in the 17 years Gallup has polled Americans about her. Her highest favorable rating of 67% came in late December 1998, just after her husband, President Bill Clinton, was impeached by the U.S. House of Representatives.

Partisan Views of Clinton and Obama

Clinton and Obama are about equally appreciated by Democrats -- 91% currently have favorable opinions of Clinton and 89% have favorable views of Obama. They fare about equally among independents, but Republicans have more positive views of Clinton (35%) than of Obama (19%).

Republicans' more positive views of Clinton relative to Obama mark a reversal since January, when Republican ratings of Obama (60%) were much more positive than those of Clinton (35%). Thus, Obama's favorable rating has declined 41 points among Republicans since January, while Clinton's has not moved at all.

Independents' opinions of Obama have also soured, from 75% favorable to 52%. There have been only minor declines in Democrats' opinions of Obama.

Get Gallup news on Facebook and Twitter

Survey Methods

Results are based on telephone interviews with 1,013 national adults, aged 18 and older, conducted Oct. 1-4, 2009. For results based on the total sample of national adults, one can say with 95% confidence that the maximum margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points.

Interviews are conducted with respondents on land-line telephones (for respondents with a land-line telephone) and cellular phones (for respondents who are cell-phone only).

In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls.

Don't forget, #1#Bernie also wrote an essay that one could describe as a "rape fantasy"#1# He would have been dragged into the mud with Trump just like Hillary was. http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained



http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained
THE BERNIE SANDERS 'RAPE FANTASY' ESSAY, EXPLAINED
The Bernie Sanders 'Rape Fantasy' Essay, Explained

Enlarge this image toggle caption Win McNamee/Getty Images Win McNamee/Getty Images

Mother Jones dug up a 1972 essay that Bernie Sanders wrote for the Vermont Freeman, an alternative newspaper. The article, called, "Man-and-Woman," is a commentary on gender roles. But it's also caused a stir, as is bound to happen anytime a candidate mentions rape.

If you haven't been following the hubbub, read on for a rundown of what the controversy is all about.

So what did Bernie Sanders write and what did he say about rape?

#1#The essay by the Vermont senator, who officially kicked off his presidential campaign this week, isn't long — only a page. Warning: The bit about rape comes at the very beginning, as does some not-totally-safe-for-work language:#1#

"A man goes home and masturbates his typical fantasy. A woman on her knees, a woman tied up, a woman abused. "A woman enjoys intercourse with her man — as she fantasizes being raped by 3 men simultaneously. "The man and woman get dressed up on Sunday — and go to Church, or maybe to their 'revolutionary' political meeting. "Have you ever looked at the Stag, Man, Hero, Tough magazines on the shelf of your local bookstore? Do you know why the newspaper with the articles like 'Girl 12 raped by 14 men' sell so well? To what in us are they appealing?"

Sanders then goes on to explain his ideas about gender roles and eventually gets at a sharper point — that traditional gender roles help create troubling dynamics in men's and women's sex lives.

"Many women seem to be walking a tightrope," he writes, as their "qualities of love, openness, and gentleness were too deeply enmeshed with qualities of dependency, subservience, and masochism."

He adds that men, likewise, are confused:

"What is it they want from a woman? Are they at fault? Are they perpetrating this man-woman situation? Are they oppressors?"

One way to read the essay is that Sanders was doing (in a supremely ham-handed way) what journalists do every day: draw the reader in with an attention-getting lede, then get to the meat of the article in the middle. Though he only sticks to his larger point for three paragraphs before getting back to his fictional couple, ending the essay with an imagined conversation:

"And she said, 'You wanted me not as a woman, or a lover, or a friend, but as a submissive woman, or submissive friend, or submissive lover...' "And he said, 'You're full of ______.' "And they never again made love together (which they had each liked to do more than anything) or never saw each other one more time."

What has the Sanders campaign said?

The Sanders campaign quickly tried to distance itself — and the candidate — from the 43-year-old essay. Campaign spokesman Michael Briggs called the essay a "dumb attempt at dark satire in an alternative publication" in an interview with CNN, adding that it "in no way reflects his views or record on women." He added, "It was intended to attack gender stereotypes of the '70s, but it looks as stupid today as it was then."

So what does this say about Sanders' attitude toward women?

You can draw divergent conclusions from the article itself. On the one hand, he's talking about liberating people from harmful gender norms. On the other, with his nameless hypothetical "man-and-woman" characters, he also seems to imply that men fantasize about raping women or that women fantasize about being raped.

The 2016 presidential field has been quiet about it, but conservative Erick Erickson jeered at Sanders supporters on Twitter.

Meanwhile, Bill Kristol and Town Hall's Katie Pavlich turned the essay on Bill Clinton, using it as an opening to mention past allegations of sexual misconduct on his part.

National Review writer Charles C.W. Cooke, though, dismissed the essay as insignificant:

"Nobody honestly believes that Bernie Sanders is a sexual pervert or that he is a misogynist or that he intends to do women any harm. Nobody suspects that he harbors a secret desire to pass intrusive legislation or to cut gang rapists a break. Really, there is only one reason that anyone would make hay of this story, and that is to damage the man politically."

Rather than criticize Sanders for something he wrote long ago, Cooke added, "until I see any sign of actual wrongdoing I'd much prefer to slam Sanders for his dangerous and ridiculous politics than to delve back into his past and embarrass him with a long-forgotten opinion."

Looking at his political life, it's true that Sanders' record shows an ongoing concern for women's rights. Katie McDonough at left-leaning Salon.com compiled a list of measures Sanders has supported or sponsored to protect women from violence and sexual assault.

Are there any lessons to draw from this?

Absolutely: if you're a politician — especially on the national level — everything you've ever written, said, or done can, and likely will, be dredged up for all the world to inspect and critique.

It's not the first time writings from long ago have resurfaced to be used against a candidate. Republican Bob McDonnell's 20-year-old thesis about his views on women was also used as a cudgel against him in his bid for governor of Virginia in 2009.

When Louisiana Republican Gov. Bobby Jindal's name began to surface as a potential vice-presidential candidate in 2012, the political world began writing about his 1994 essay about an exorcism he says he witnessed. (See here and here.) That, by the way, is sure to come up again if he runs in 2016 or any time in the future.

Many candidates have also faced plagiarism charges, like Democratic Sen. John Walsh of Montana, who dropped out of his re-election race last year after the New York Times reported he had lifted portions of the final paper he wrote to get his master's degree.

Vice President Joe Biden admitted in 1987 to cribbing a speech from a British politician, but said it wasn't "malevolent." In 2008, the Clinton campaign accused Barack Obama of lifting lines from his friend, then-Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick.

And then there are the countless officials who have been embarrassed in the media for sexual impropriety, including the aforementioned Bill Clinton. Eliot Spitzer. Anthony Weiner. David Vitter. John Ensign. Chris Lee. Vito Fossella. Mark Foley. Dennis Hastert.

It's not just elected officials — consider the flap over past comments in which now-Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor described herself as a "wise Latina." It's not plagiarism or an affair, but it created a headache for her during confirmation hearings.

The scrutiny is part of why so many people want nothing to do with the white hot spotlight that comes with running for office.

#1#As you predicted at the end of your statement, they already do this.#1# Here is a short list: http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions

As you can see, the punishments are pretty steep, including heavy fines, and forfeiture of assets including entire buildings.

The main problem with concentrating efforts on the employers is that they have to "knowingly" hire them as illegals, which is hard to prove unless the employer is doing a large campaign to do so (as in the examples in the link). If you have a couple illegals out of 150 employees, it's pretty easy for a lawyer to just say they did their due diligence, but a few just "fell between the cracks."

In addition, there aren't many people who are incentivized to report. The immigrant isn't going to report himself, and the employer sure as hell isn't either. A legal employee at the same company might do so, but it'll be his job on the line as well. It's just easier for that guy to tell the authorities about a one or two illegals at his company, than to take out the entire company, and lose his own job in the process.



http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions
FEDERATION FOR AMERICAN IMMIGRATION REFORM
March 2016

The greatest incentive for illegal aliens to come to the United States is to find work. If there are no employers willing to hire them, then the flood of illegal aliens will subside. #1#The Immigration and Reform Act of 1986 outlawed hiring illegal alien workers, although common practice has proven that measure ineffective for two reasons:#1#

The law requires proof that the employer knowingly hired the illegal worker. The prevalence of fake documents make it difficult to prove the employer knew that the employee’s work documents were not legitimate.

Historically, immigration law enforcement has been the exclusive province of federal law enforcement, but states are increasingly joining with the federal government in that effort and enacting legislation to punish employers for hiring violations. On January 1, 2008, an employer sanctions law took affect in Arizona. Business owners face the nation's first state law that requires employers to verify the work documents of their new employees. The law says any business that knowingly hires a worker who is in the country illegally will have its business license suspended. For a second offense, the business' license could be revoked. That is different from the federal penalties of fines and possible criminal prosecution that have been infrequently imposed for similar offenses.

The information below is taken from news sources. Each party in the report either confessed or was convicted of knowingly hiring illegal aliens. These cases are listed to illustrate the widespread abuse and increased prosecution of companies employing illegal aliens towards the end of the Bush Administration. Prosecutions that have continued in the Obama Administration are largely the culmination of investigations begun before the change in administration. For a discussion of current policy see Interior Immigration Enforcement — Musical Chairs.

> Had both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared headed toward victory in the Republican and Democratic presidential primaries, Mr. Bloomberg was determined to run, according to his advisers, several of whom insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about confidential discussions.

[Source from the *New York Times*](http://nytimes.com/2016/03/08/us/politics/michael-bloomberg-not-running-for-president.html)

#1#Even if Bloomberg takes a few red states, as long as Sanders can't get over 270 - which will be nearly impossible if Bloomberg wins a single blue state, or splits the vote enough to allow Trump to win a single blueish state like Virginia - Trump wins via the House.#1# Even if the House won't vote for Trump, which I find unlikely, Sanders still won't win. 



http://nytimes.com/2016/03/08/us/politics/michael-bloomberg-not-running-for-president.html
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG SAYS HE WON’T RUN FOR PRESIDENT
Torn between his aspiration and a mountain of data showing that the path for an independent campaign aimed at the political center was slim and narrowing, Mr. Bloomberg, 74, ultimately abandoned what would probably have been his last chance to run for the White House.

Had both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared headed toward victory in the Republican and Democratic presidential primaries, Mr. Bloomberg was determined to run, according to his advisers, several of whom insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about confidential discussions.

But Mr. Bloomberg balked at the prospect of a race against Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton, who has established a dominant lead over Mr. Sanders on the Democratic side. In his column, Mr. Bloomberg said he could not in good conscience enter a race that could lead to a deadlock in the Electoral College — and to the election of Mr. Trump, or perhaps Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.

Mr. Bloomberg’s decision brings a new measure of clarity to a race that has come sharply into focus in recent weeks, and reflects both Mrs. Clinton’s tightening grip on the Democratic contest and the growing alarm among mainstream political and business leaders about Mr. Trump’s populist insurgency.

Mr. Trump is widely seen as a weak general election candidate, and surveys conducted for Mr. Bloomberg bolstered that perception. Mr. Bloomberg’s veteran pollster, Douglas E. Schoen, gauged his prospects in polls in February and March, testing Mr. Bloomberg as a candidate nationally and in 22 crucial states.

At the outset, about two-fifths of the country had no familiarity with Mr. Bloomberg, who may be best known nationally for his support of expanded gun control legislation. But Mr. Schoen’s February polling found that after voters heard mostly favorable descriptions of Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders, Mr. Bloomberg collected 35 percent of the vote and a solid lead in the Electoral College. In a race against Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, however, Mr. Bloomberg faced far tougher odds.

#1#The most favorable result for Mr. Bloomberg might have been a stalemate in the Electoral College, with no candidate capable of taking the 270 votes required. Under those conditions, the House of Representatives, where Republicans hold a majority, would choose the president.#1#

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A second poll, taken by Mr. Schoen from Feb. 28 to March 1, found that Mr. Trump was bleeding support with general election voters after a flailing debate performance and a disastrous interview in which he failed to disavow Mr. Duke’s support.

Photo

Still, the poll found Mr. Bloomberg could overtake Mr. Trump and fall short of eclipsing Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that cold math in his column. “I believe I could win a number of diverse states,” he wrote, “but not enough to win the 270 Electoral College votes necessary to win the presidency.”

By opting not to run, Mr. Bloomberg is deactivating a political apparatus far more extensive than the one he assembled the last time he seriously weighed a run for president, in 2008. In private conversations, Mr. Bloomberg appeared far more enthusiastic about running now, and he laid out his ambitions in conversations with leaders including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain.

Aides planned an elaborate campaign to introduce him to the electorate, and consulted with Milton Glaser, the architect of the “I Love New York” campaign, and the Swedish-born designer Thomas Meyerhoffer, of California, to work on logos.

His messaging would have stressed Mr. Bloomberg’s identity as a self-made man and a problem solver not beholden to either party. A draft of his website carried the slogan, “All Work and No Party.” One logo, etched in purple, read simply: “Fix It.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A rough cut of a presidential campaign ad described Mr. Bloomberg as the product of middle-class Medford, Mass., who built a multibillion-dollar enterprise from scratch. It cast Mr. Bloomberg as a philanthropist who had given generously to fight deadly diseases, and highlighted his experience managing New York’s security after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

“Finally, a new choice,” the commercial’s narrator says. “Independent Mike Bloomberg: President.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trevor Potter, the election lawyer who was counsel to Senator John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign, was retained to assemble legal teams to handle local and state ballot-access issues, and address constitutional questions that could arise from an inconclusive result in the Electoral College.

A ballot-access consultant, Michael Arno, leased nearly a dozen offices in Texas and North Carolina to begin gathering signatures to place Mr. Bloomberg on the ballot in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

For Mr. Bloomberg, the decision drops the curtain on a long-held dream.

In announcing it, Mr. Bloomberg said he expected to serve in other ways. “For most Americans, citizenship requires little more than paying taxes,” he wrote. “But many have given their lives to defend our nation — and all of us have an obligation as voters to stand up on behalf of ideas and principles that, as Lincoln said, represent ‘the last best hope of earth.’

“I hope and pray I’m doing that,” he wrote.

#1#If someone is not motivated enough to vote, forcing them to vote won't help the country.#1# The people who don't vote are the ones that do not follow politics. All they will see are 30 second ads vilifying one candidate or another. They are easily swayed and don't care enough to learn about the issues.

[Mike Rowe has a fantastic letter about this and I highly recommend you reading.](http://www.outdoorhub.com/news/2016/10/12/mike-rowe-shares-wise-opinion-voting/)

Edit: Full text for the lazy:

>Hey Mike, I have nothing but respect for you. Your no-nonsense outlook and incredible eloquence have really had a profound impact in my life. Can you please encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election? I would never impose on you by asking you to advocate one politician over another, but I do feel this election could really use your help. I know that there are many people out there who feel like there is nothing they can do. Please try to use your gifts to make them see that they can do something – that their vote counts.

>Hi Jeremy

>Thanks for the kind words. I appreciate it. I also share your concern for our country, and agree wholeheartedly that every vote counts. However, I’m afraid I can’t encourage millions of people whom I’ve never met to just run out and cast a ballot, simply because they have the right to vote. That would be like encouraging everyone to buy an AR-15, simply because they have the right to bear arms. I would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement. For instance, do they know how to care for a weapon? Can they afford the cost of the weapon? Do they have a history of violence? Are they mentally stable? In short, are they responsible citizens?

>Casting a ballot is not so different. It’s an important right that we all share, and one that impacts our society in dramatic fashion. But it’s one thing to respect and acknowledge our collective rights, and quite another thing to affirmatively encourage people I’ve never met to exercise them. And yet, my friends in Hollywood do that very thing, and they’re at it again.

>Every four years, celebrities and movie stars look earnestly into the camera and tell the country to “get out and vote.” They tell us it’s our “most important civic duty,” and they speak as if the very act of casting a ballot is more important than the outcome of the election. This strikes me as somewhat hysterical. Does anyone actually believe that Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen DeGeneres, and Ed Norton would encourage the “masses” to vote, if they believed the “masses” would elect Donald Trump?

>Regardless of their political agenda, my celebrity pals are fundamentally mistaken about our “civic duty” to vote. There is simply no such thing. Voting is a right, not a duty, and not a moral obligation. Like all rights, the right to vote comes with some responsibilities, but lets face it – the bar is not set very high. If you believe aliens from another planet walk among us, you are welcome at the polls. If you believe the world is flat, and the moon landing was completely staged, you are invited to cast a ballot. Astrologists, racists, ghost-hunters, sexists, and people who rely upon a Magic 8 Ball to determine their daily wardrobe are all allowed to participate. In fact, and to your point, they’re encouraged.

>The undeniable reality is this: our right to vote does not require any understanding of current events, or any awareness of how our government works. So, when a celebrity reminds the country that “everybody’s vote counts,” they are absolutely correct. But when they tell us that “everybody in the country should get out there and vote,” regardless of what they think or believe, I gotta wonder what they’re smoking.

>Look at our current candidates. No one appears to like either one of them. Their approval ratings are at record lows. It’s not about who you like more, it’s about who you hate less. Sure, we can blame the media, the system, and the candidates themselves, but let’s be honest – Donald and Hillary are there because we put them there. The electorate has tolerated the intolerable. We’ve treated this entire process like the final episode of American Idol. What did we expect?

>So no, Jeremy – I can’t personally encourage everyone in the country to run out and vote. I wouldn’t do it, even if I thought it would benefit my personal choice. Because the truth is, the country doesn’t need voters who have to be cajoled, enticed, or persuaded to cast a ballot. We need voters who wish to participate in the process. So if you really want me to say something political, how about this – read more.

>Spend a few hours every week studying American history, human nature, and economic theory. Start with “Economics in One Lesson.” Then try Keynes. Then Hayek. Then Marx. Then Hegel. Develop a worldview that you can articulate as well as defend. Test your theory with people who disagree with you. Debate. Argue. Adjust your philosophy as necessary. Then, when the next election comes around, cast a vote for the candidate whose worldview seems most in line with your own.

>Or, don’t. None of the freedoms spelled out in our Constitution were put there so people could cast uninformed ballots out of some misplaced sense of civic duty brought on by a celebrity guilt-trip. The right to assemble, to protest, to speak freely – these rights were included to help assure that the best ideas and the best candidates would emerge from the most transparent process possible.

>Remember – there’s nothing virtuous or patriotic about voting just for the sake of voting, and the next time someone tells you otherwise, do me a favor – ask them who they’re voting for. Then tell them you’re voting for their opponent. Then, see if they’ll give you a ride to the polls.

>In the meantime, dig into “Economics in One Lesson,” by Henry Hazlitt. It sounds like a snooze but it really is a page turner, and you can download it for free.

>Mike



http://www.outdoorhub.com/news/2016/10/12/mike-rowe-shares-wise-opinion-voting/
MIKE ROWE SHARES HIS WISE OPINION ON VOTING
Mike Rowe was asked by a fan to help out with this year’s election by encouraging his following to go out and vote. Mike’s response to this request was nothing short of perfect. What he offered instead was wisdom and a completely different outlook on this issue. Check out the exchange below.

Hey Mike, I have nothing but respect for you. Your no-nonsense outlook and incredible eloquence have really had a profound impact in my life. Can you please encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election? I would never impose on you by asking you to advocate one politician over another, but I do feel this election could really use your help. I know that there are many people out there who feel like there is nothing they can do. Please try to use your gifts to make them see that they can do something – that their vote counts.

Hi Jeremy

Thanks for the kind words. I appreciate it. I also share your concern for our country, and agree wholeheartedly that every vote counts. However, I’m afraid I can’t encourage millions of people whom I’ve never met to just run out and cast a ballot, simply because they have the right to vote. That would be like encouraging everyone to buy an AR-15, simply because they have the right to bear arms. I would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement. For instance, do they know how to care for a weapon? Can they afford the cost of the weapon? Do they have a history of violence? Are they mentally stable? In short, are they responsible citizens?

Casting a ballot is not so different. It’s an important right that we all share, and one that impacts our society in dramatic fashion. But it’s one thing to respect and acknowledge our collective rights, and quite another thing to affirmatively encourage people I’ve never met to exercise them. And yet, my friends in Hollywood do that very thing, and they’re at it again.

Every four years, celebrities and movie stars look earnestly into the camera and tell the country to “get out and vote.” They tell us it’s our “most important civic duty,” and they speak as if the very act of casting a ballot is more important than the outcome of the election. This strikes me as somewhat hysterical. Does anyone actually believe that Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen DeGeneres, and Ed Norton would encourage the “masses” to vote, if they believed the “masses” would elect Donald Trump?

Regardless of their political agenda, my celebrity pals are fundamentally mistaken about our “civic duty” to vote. There is simply no such thing. Voting is a right, not a duty, and not a moral obligation. Like all rights, the right to vote comes with some responsibilities, but lets face it – the bar is not set very high. If you believe aliens from another planet walk among us, you are welcome at the polls. If you believe the world is flat, and the moon landing was completely staged, you are invited to cast a ballot. Astrologists, racists, ghost-hunters, sexists, and people who rely upon a Magic 8 Ball to determine their daily wardrobe are all allowed to participate. In fact, and to your point, they’re encouraged.

The undeniable reality is this: our right to vote does not require any understanding of current events, or any awareness of how our government works. So, when a celebrity reminds the country that “everybody’s vote counts,” they are absolutely correct. But when they tell us that “everybody in the country should get out there and vote,” regardless of what they think or believe, I gotta wonder what they’re smoking.

Look at our current candidates. No one appears to like either one of them. Their approval ratings are at record lows. It’s not about who you like more, it’s about who you hate less. Sure, we can blame the media, the system, and the candidates themselves, but let’s be honest – Donald and Hillary are there because we put them there. The electorate has tolerated the intolerable. We’ve treated this entire process like the final episode of American Idol. What did we expect?

So no, Jeremy – I can’t personally encourage everyone in the country to run out and vote. I wouldn’t do it, even if I thought it would benefit my personal choice. Because the truth is, #1#the country doesn’t need voters who have to be cajoled, enticed, or persuaded to cast a ballot#1#. We need voters who wish to participate in the process. So if you really want me to say something political, how about this – read more.

Spend a few hours every week studying American history, human nature, and economic theory. Start with “Economics in One Lesson.” Then try Keynes. Then Hayek. Then Marx. Then Hegel. Develop a worldview that you can articulate as well as defend. Test your theory with people who disagree with you. Debate. Argue. Adjust your philosophy as necessary. Then, when the next election comes around, cast a vote for the candidate whose worldview seems most in line with your own.

Or, don’t. None of the freedoms spelled out in our Constitution were put there so people could cast uninformed ballots out of some misplaced sense of civic duty brought on by a celebrity guilt-trip. The right to assemble, to protest, to speak freely – these rights were included to help assure that the best ideas and the best candidates would emerge from the most transparent process possible.

Remember – there’s nothing virtuous or patriotic about voting just for the sake of voting, and the next time someone tells you otherwise, do me a favor – ask them who they’re voting for. Then tell them you’re voting for their opponent. Then, see if they’ll give you a ride to the polls.

In the meantime, dig into “Economics in One Lesson,” by Henry Hazlitt. It sounds like a snooze but it really is a page turner, and you can download it for free.

Mike

I think Bernie stood a much better chance for a few simple reasons.

-Hillary Clinton is hated by a large segment of the population. #1#Whereas Bernie is far and away the most [popular]#1#(http://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2016/09/most_and_least-liked_us_senato.html) senator in the US.

-He promoted economic populism, whereas she promoted more-or-less a continuance of the same old.

-He has no baggage surrounding him, no scandals, no sign that he was hiding anything.

-He spoke directly to the working class white males directly, and reached out to conservative voters. I don't remember Hillary visiting Alabama or Louisiana to campaign.

-He was wildly popular, he had people raving about *policy* not personal attacks, whereas Hillary couldn't fire up a crowd if her life depended on it.

-He was huge with every demographic except minorities, specifically black Americans,  who he was making inroads with.

-But mostly, nobody likes Clinton. Nobody trusts her. In a year where, literally all over the world, people are saying eff-you to every establishment political order all over the world, Clinton was the most establishment candidate that you could field. Anywhere. In spite of what they tell you, we haven't recovered from the so called Great Recession, people are still hurting. And at some point to people you have to burn the system down to get your point across. To tell them that your way isn't working. Bernie was inspiring left version, now we have to deal with violent right version.

Edit:

I also want to remind you that Bernie won MI, WI, and very nearly Iowa. All states that Clinton should've beaten Bernie in handily. They showed how weak she was in the midwest. Nobody thought he'd do well in MI until he won it in an upset. The proverbial canary in the coal mine, and everybody ignored it.



http://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2016/09/most_and_least-liked_us_senato.html
MOST AND LEAST-LIKED U.S. SENATORS: APPROVAL RATINGS FOR ALABAMA'S JEFF SESSIONS AND RICHARD SHELBY
When it comes to U.S. Senators, people in Vermont are feeling the Bern.

#1#Bernie Sanders, an Independent from Vermont and former Democratic presidential candidate, had the highest approval rating among his constituents, according to a Morning Consult poll released Tuesday.#1# Sander's approval rating was 87 percent, 18 points higher than second most-popular Senator Susan Collins, R-ME.

Here are the 10 Senators with the highest approval ratings among their constituents:

Bernie Sanders, I-VT - 87 percent approval Susan Collins, R-ME - 69 percent approval John Thune, R-SD - 68 percent approval Thomas Carper, D-DE - 66 percent approval Patrick Leahy, D-VT - 66 percent approval Lisa Murkowski, R-AK - 65 percent approval Brian Schatz, D-HI - 64 percent approval Charles Schumer, D-NY - 64 percent approval John Hoeven, R-ND - 63 percent approval John Reed, D-RI - 63 percent approval

Here are the 10 Senators with the highest disapproval ratings among their constituents:



Mitch McConnell, R-KY - 51 percent disapproval Pat Roberts, R-KS - 43 percent disapproval Harry Reid, D-NV - 43 percent disapproval John McCain, R-AZ - 42 percent disapproval Marco Rubio, R-FL - 41 percent disapproval Lindsey Graham, R-SC - 40 percent disapproval David Vitter, R-LA - 39 percent disapproval Mark Kirk, R-IL - 38 percent disapproval Richard Durbin, D-IL - 38 percent disapproval Claire McCaskill, D-MO - 38 percent disapproval

Of the bottom 10, only Durbin and McCaskill had approval ratings (41 percent and 46 percent, respectively) higher than their disapproval rating.

Alabama Senators

According to the Morning Consult, Alabama's Senior Senator, Republican Richard Shelby, had an approval rating of 55 percent with a disapproval rating of 28 percent. Seventeen percent weren't sure.

Fifty-four percent said they approved of the job of Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions is doing, with 26 percent disapproving and 21 percent unsure.

Comparing the approval ratings, Shelby comes in at 30th on the list and Sessions at 35th.

The rankings were based on interviews with almost 72,000 registered voters with representation from each state.

I'm going to premise this by saying that I think Bernie is a generally good person, but I think people are wearing rose tinted glasses in evaluating if he would have won the general if he had been the democratic nom. Below, I lay out 3 arguments why I don't think he would have won/outperformed Clinton.

**Hillary went easy on Bernie in the primaries, and he would have had more scandals in the general**

There's a ton of information about Bernie that Hillary didn't bring up because it wouldn't be useful in front of a democratic audience. However, in the general, these things could be devastating. Namely, his #1#[honeymoon in the USSR,]#1# (http://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-02-11/how-bernie-sanders-spent-his-soviet-honeymoon) his essay about #2#[rape fantasies,]#2# (http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained) and the fact that he's a #3#[career politician who's worked for government for 40 years]#3# (http://www.inquisitr.com/3371682/bernie-sanders-is-a-career-politician-not-a-revolutionary). He would be very easy to paint as a socialist, which is still in a boogeyman among the white working class/rural voters that he could theoretically pull that Clinton couldn't. It would also be a harder challenge to pull Republican women because both of those things listed above.


**He wouldn't have inspired black/hispanic turnout.**

#4#The primary reason Clinton won overwhelmingly in the primary is because of [black and hispanic turnout]#4#(http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/06/2016-bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-democrats-race-racial-divide-213948). She's built inroads with those communities for decades. 

However, in the general, #5#she [failed to energize]#5# (http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/08/politics/first-exit-polls-2016/) those 2 groups sufficiently to win. If she failed to capture that core Democratic group, than there's no reason Sanders would have sufficiently closed that gap to overwhelm the turnout that Trump would inspire among rural americans.

**He would not be able to capture Trump voters because he doesn't tap into racial anxiety, and actually causes religious anxiety**

Bernie sanders doesn't scape goat minorities, LGBT, or refugees.Unfortunately #6#[this is what many trump voters wanted to see]#6# (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/06/06/racial-anxiety-is-a-huge-driver-of-support-for-donald-trump-two-new-studies-find/). As a result, he probably would not have peeled off enough cultural Trump voters to overcome Trump's lead.

#7#He also faces the challenge of being Jewish, which I believe would probably alienate him from a few points of the Black and Hispanic vote, [which tend to be relatively religious]#7# (https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos). It's unfortunate, but true that I think he would've faced discrimination for this from muslim and christian democrats.


Based on these factors, I don't see him flipping any states that Clinton failed to win, and as a result, probably doing equally as badly or worse than her.
_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos
SOCIOLOGIST: ‘FAITH IS A FAMILY-FRIENDLY FORCE’ FOR AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND LATINOS
“By 2050, a majority of Americans will be minorities. Yet scholars know little about faith and family life among non-white Americans,” said University of Virginia sociologist W. Bradford Wilcox.

But he and collaborator Nicholas H. Wolfinger of the University of Utah have found that African-American and Latino couples who attend church together experience happier relationships and family life. They make the case in their new book, “Soul Mates: Religion, Sex, Love, and Marriage Among African Americans and Latinos” – the first study of religion and family life among blacks and Latinos, the authors say.

#7#Faith can furnish a beneficial, sturdy path for African-Americans and Latinos, who tend to face more challenges than other Americans – from racism to poverty, Wilcox and Wolfinger found.#7# Religion doesn’t offer a magic pill for successful living, but church participation is clearly associated with positive outcomes in relationships and family life. This bears out even in the midst of lower marriage rates and higher cohabiting rates among blacks and Latinos, as well as among whites.

Pursuing the question “Is religion achieving success in creating the conditions where relationships, marriages and families can flourish in black and Latino communities?” Wilcox and Wolfinger analyzed six national data sets and conducted more than a hundred interviews in several cities. They included information from Wilcox’s year (2005-2006) of fieldwork in Harlem, Brooklyn and the Bronx, during which time he visited churches and spoke with clergy and parishioners.

“One big reason so many families of color are thriving is that they tend to be more religious than the average American,” said Wilcox, director of the National Marriage Project. An estimated 50,000 congregations serve blacks and Latinos in the United States, where 36 percent of African-Americans and 29 percent of Latinos attend church frequently (several times a month or more).

“Our book shows that churches are achieving an important measure of success in fostering lower rates of non-marital childbearing, more marriage, and happier relationships among blacks and Latinos,” the authors write. Unmarried churchgoers are also more likely to get married compared to similar couples who do not regularly darken the door of a church, they write.

When it comes to “family values,” a clear majority of blacks and Latinos value marriage more than single living, and most will marry at some point in their lives. In fact, 56 percent of blacks and 68 percent of Latinos feel it is better to be married than to be single, compared to 54 percent of whites. Wilcox and Wolfinger consider social, cultural, historical and economic factors that help and hinder marriage and its stability.

“Soul Mates” found that 80 percent of Latinos report being happy in their relationships when both partners attend church, compared to 71 percent for Latino couples who don’t go to church. With black couples, 78 percent who attended church reported being happy while the figure for non-church going couples drops to 69 percent. (The figures for white couples are 79 percent and 70 percent, respectively.)

Another point Wilcox emphasized is the influence of religion on men.

He and Wolfinger argue that “shared faith supplies moral, social and spiritual solidarity and that religion seems especially important in turning men’s hearts and minds toward their wives or partners.” Churches foster an ethic of care and reinforce a code of decency, they write.

They define “code of decency” as “hard work, lawful behavior, temperance, and sexual fidelity in married and unmarried relationships.”

“Religious faith makes for better men,” Wilcox said. “Black and Latino men who attend church are more likely to be employed, to steer clear of substance abuse, and to avoid incarceration. This men’s effect lends indirect support to higher quality family relationships among black and Latino families.” In fact, young men of color are about 30 percent less likely to end up idle (out of work and out of school) if they are regular churchgoers, compared to their peers who are not regular churchgoers.

Because of these findings, the authors conclude that religion is a family-friendly force among African-Americans and Latinos.

This is just sad so I'll just point out that every bit of data shows #1#Hillary caused the loss of Black and Latino votes#1#, so on this particular subject you are utterly wrong.

http://www.businessinsider.com/exit-polls-show-clinton-underperformed-with-black-and-hispanic-voters-2016-11

#2#Meanwhile Trump's support from these groups was actually an improvement for the GOP.#2#

http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/2016-election-day/trump-did-better-blacks-hispanics-romney-12-exit-polls-n681386

In fact Trump did better with every group except for white men and 'other'.

You're wrong about literally everything else except the correct spelling, but I'm not going to waste my time. HRC is now the biggest national disgrace of all time, and the most unpopular candidate in polling history.

The fact that your terrible campaign's shrieking about scandals had little to no effect on Trump whatsoever is proof that no-one would have listened to the elitist ramblings against Bernie Sanders. #3#He would've crushed your garbage cheating warmonger, and then Trump easily.#3#

http://www.carlbeijer.com/2016/05/you-have-choice.html

#4#even media owned by relatives of donald trump now acknowledges it:#4# http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

#5#If you don't recognize this is the truth soon, you'll soon be on your way to failing again in 2020.#5#

https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/



http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

#1#Reading fiction [helps one develop empathy]#1#(https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/novel-finding-reading-literary-fiction-improves-empathy/) for others. Given the context of a divisive political environment I think it's an important skill for everyone to cherish.



https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/novel-finding-reading-literary-fiction-improves-empathy/
NOVEL FINDING: READING LITERARY FICTION IMPROVES EMPATHY
How important is reading fiction in socializing school children? #1#Researchers at The New School in New York City have found evidence that literary fiction improves a reader’s capacity to understand what others are thinking and feeling.#1#

Emanuele Castano, a social psychologist, along with PhD candidate David Kidd conducted five studies in which they divided a varying number of participants (ranging from 86 to 356) and gave them different reading assignments: excerpts from genre (or popular) fiction, literary fiction, nonfiction or nothing. After they finished the excerpts the participants took a test that measured their ability to infer and understand other people’s thoughts and emotions. The researchers found, to their surprise, a significant difference between the literary- and genre-fiction readers.

When study participants read non-fiction or nothing, their results were unimpressive. When they read excerpts of genre fiction, such as Danielle Steel’s The Sins of the Mother, their test results were dually insignificant. However, when they read literary fiction, such as The Round House by Louise Erdrich, their test results improved markedly—and, by implication, so did their capacity for empathy. The study was published October 4 in Science.

The results are consistent with what literary criticism has to say about the two genres—and indeed, this may be the first empirical evidence linking literary and psychological theories of fiction. Popular fiction tends to portray situations that are otherworldly and follow a formula to take readers on a roller-coaster ride of emotions and exciting experiences. Although the settings and situations are grand, the characters are internally consistent and predictable, which tends to affirm the reader’s expectations of others. It stands to reason that popular fiction does not expand the capacity to empathize.

Literary fiction, by contrast, focuses more on the psychology of characters and their relationships. “Often those characters’ minds are depicted vaguely, without many details, and we’re forced to fill in the gaps to understand their intentions and motivations,” Kidd says. This genre prompts the reader to imagine the characters’ introspective dialogues. This psychological awareness carries over into the real world, which is full of complicated individuals whose inner lives are usually difficult to fathom. Although literary fiction tends to be more realistic than popular fiction, the characters disrupt reader expectations, undermining prejudices and stereotypes. They support and teach us values about social behavior, such as the importance of understanding those who are different from ourselves.

The results suggest that reading fiction is a valuable socializing influence. The study data couldinform debates over how much fiction should be included in educational curricula and whether reading programs should be implemented in prisons, where reading literary fiction might improve inmates’ social functioning and empathy. Castano also hopes the finding will encourage autistic people to engage in more literary fiction, in the hope it could improve their ability to empathize without the side effects of medication.

> Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that. No black person will be president again any time soon.

#1#[Snopes says that is untrue]#1#(http://www.snopes.com/trump-laziness-is-a-trait-in-blacks).

Regardless, I am not arguing "Trump is not a racist" or "Trump is a good candidate". I am arguing that calling him racist and being smug and condescending is a poor strategy.





http://www.snopes.com/trump-laziness-is-a-trait-in-blacks
TRUMP: 'LAZINESS IS A TRAIT IN BLACKS; NO BLACK PRESIDENT AGAIN ANY TIME SOON'
CLAIM

Donald Trump said, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that. No black person will be president again any time soon." See Example( s )

EXAMPLES Collected via Facebook, August 2016

MIXTURE

RATING

MIXTURE

WHAT'S TRUE

Donald Trump once tweeted, "Sadly, because president Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won't see another black president for generations!"

WHAT'S FALSE

Trump did not utter the full statement, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that ... No black person will be president again any time soon."

#1#WHAT'S UNDETERMINED

Whether Trump ever said, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that."#1#

ORIGIN

An Internet meme circulating in August 2016 paired two racially charged statements previously attributed separately to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump:

“Laziness is a trait in blacks … I believe that”

“No black person will be president again any time soon” — Donald Trump

While neither attribution was new, the conjunction of the two statements gave the impression that Trump must have at some time opined that no black person will be President of the United States again any time soon because “laziness is a trait in blacks.”

There’s no public record of Trump’s ever having said such a thing.

However, there is a public record of Donald Trump having stated, more or less, that no black person will be president again any time soon because of the poor performance of the current officeholder:

Sadly, because president Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won’t see another black president for generations! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 25, 2014

When called upon to explain the statement in a 2 August 2015 interview with Jonathan Karl on ABC News’ This Week, Trump said:

TRUMP: Well, I think he’s been a very poor president. I think he has done a very poor job as president. We have $18 trillion right now in debt and going up rapidly. KARL: But what did you mean? What — TRUMP: Wait a minute. The world is — we don’t have victories anymore. China is killing us on trade. Mexico’s killing us at the border and also killing us on trade. Mexico’s doing unbelievably against us in trade. You look at what’s going on with Japan. You look at what’s going on with Vietnam. You look at Saudi Arabia, makes $1 billion a day and we defend them. We get nothing. KARL: I understand your critique. But why do you say that means we won’t see another black president for generations? TRUMP: Because I think that he has set a very poor standard. I think that he has set a very low bar and I think it’s a shame for the African American people. And by the way, he has done nothing for African Americans. You look at what’s gone on with their income levels. You look at what’s gone on with their youth. I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. I thought he’d do a fabulous job for the African American citizens of this country.

There’s a source attributing the statement “Laziness is a trait in blacks” to Donald Trump dating back to the early 1990s. It should be noted, however, that that source is a book written by a disgruntled former employee of Trump Plaza Hotel & Casino, John R. O’Donnell, and neither the statement nor the sentiment behind it has been corroborated elsewhere.

As one might expect, O’Donnell’s account, Trumped!, paints an unflattering portrait of its subject overall but offers this anecdote specifically as evidence of Trump’s low opinion of the African Americans in his employ:

“What do you think of him?” Donald asked. I said I was familiar with his abilities, and he had shortcomings. “To be honest, I don’t think he’s the best we can have,” I said. “I’d like to see him either come up to speed, where he can help me a lot more, or maybe there’s something else he can do.” Instantly, Donald was enthused. “Yeah, I never liked the guy. I don’t think he knows what the fuck he’s doing. My accountants up in New York are always complaining about him. He’s not responsive. And isn’t it funny, I’ve got black accountants at Trump Castle and at Trump Plaza. Black guys counting my money! I hate it. The only kind of people I want counting my money are short guys that wear yarmulkes every day. Those are the kind of people I want counting my money. Nobody else.” I couldn’t believe I was hearing this But Donald went on, “Besides that, I’ve got to tell you something else. I think that the guy is lazy. And it’s probably not his fault because laziness is a trait in blacks. It really is, I believe that. It’s not anything they can control…. Don’t you agree?” He looked at me square in the eye and waited for my reply. “Donald, you really shouldn’t say things like that to me or anybody else,” I said. “That is not the kind of image you want to project. We shouldn’t even be having this conversation, even if it’s the way you feel.” “Yeah, you’re right,” he said. “If anybody ever heard me say that … holy shit … I’d be in a lot of trouble. But I have to tell you, that’s the way I feel.”

Although Trump didn’t deny any of O’Donnell’s specific allegations in a subsequent (1997) Playboy magazine interview — “The stuff O’Donnell wrote about me is probably true,” Trump said at the time — he vehemently denied O’Donnell’s account of the conversation when asked about it in a 24 October 1999 interview with Tim Russert on Meet the Press:

MR. TRUMP: I never said it. I don’t even know… MR. RUSSERT: Donald Trump … MR. TRUMP: I hardly know this guy. He was running one of my casinos for a short period of time. He was fired, we fired him because he wasn’t doing a very good job. He wrote this nasty book. He made up stuff. This is like Jon Lovitz on “Saturday Night Live,” the liar. “I went to Harvard. Yeah, I went to Harvard.” This guy, I hardly know him. He made up this quote. I’ve heard the quote before, and it’s nonsense. MR. RUSSERT: You’ve never said anything like that? MR. TRUMP: I’ve never said anything like it, ever.

As the Washington Post noted, it is, at best, a secondhand quote from a private conversation, written down years after the fact, and should be viewed “with some skepticism.”

>Must've missed this in 2012 then.

Probably due to my filters. Reddit was full force pro-Obama. A lot of anti-Clinton propaganda has been propagated here this year.

>It is at least plausible to say that Hillary called half of his supporters deplorables, and half of a pretty big group is still a pretty big group.

#1#Still [accurate]#1#(https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/clinton-wasnt-wrong-about-the-deplorables-among-trumps-supporters/2016/09/12/93720264-7932-11e6-beac-57a4a412e93a_story.html) when you look at their racial attitudes. #2#Even his own supporters had issues with his bigotry - about [half]#2#(http://www.mediaite.com/online/guess-how-many-of-trumps-own-supporters-think-that-hes-a-racist/) of them.

>Overall, 44 percent of those in the Suffolk University/USA Today poll say Trump is not a racist, while 47 percent say he is.



http://www.mediaite.com/online/guess-how-many-of-trumps-own-supporters-think-that-hes-a-racist/
GUESS HOW MANY OF TRUMP’S OWN SUPPORTERS THINK THAT HE’S A RACIST
#2#A new poll showing Hillary Clinton ahead of Donald Trump by a decent margin also reveals that some of Trump’s own supporters consider him to be racist.#2#

Now, whether that’s coming from racists or people who have accepted that as a part of Trump’s character while holding their nose and rejecting Clinton, it’s still pretty significant.

Overall, 44 percent of those in the Suffolk University/USA Today poll say Trump is not a racist, while 47 percent say he is.

37 percent of white people think Trump is racist, compared to 61 percent of Hispanics and 83 percent of African-Americans.

But when you break it down by candidate, you have 77 percent of Clinton supporters calling Trump a racist while 7 percent of Trump supporters say the same.

Yes, 7 percent of people actively supporting Trump responded positively to the question “Do you think Donald Trump is a racist?”

You can read the full results here.

[h/t WaPo]

[image via screengrab]

— —

Follow Josh Feldman on Twitter: @feldmaniac

Have a tip we should know? tips@mediaite.com

First off not gonna say either side acted well-behaved, and I apologize for idiots who shouted you down, anyone who called you a "redneck". Idiots who key cars cause there's a Trump sticker, or vandalize political signs. But don't generalize from a few bad experiences. Just like minority but very real Trump supporters who are racists and misogynists don't represent his entire base, they don't represent all of us. Painting either side with that brush is only adding to the schism.

But Trump's entire strategy revolved around bullying, casual racism and xenophobia, and generally creating divisiveness. Alright, maybe the liberals took the bait too hard and that contributed to their own downfall, but see it from their perspective: you have a man who called most Mexicans rapists, most Muslims terrorists, builds a platform on blaming other races for problems, personally insults other candidates during debates, insisted Obama was a foreigner, was literally caught on tape saying he sexually harasses women. And his support seems to eat it up.

> Maybe Trump will not fix everything, but he can at least piss the liberals off. Make them feel some of the pain they make us feel.

This is such a false narrative against this stereotype of all liberals being this comfortable, ivory-tower, East-Coast or SF yuppie who've just been living in luxury while the rest of you suffered. It's exactly what a campaign like Trump's wanted you to think because it drummed up that outrage that fed his support base. 

The average liberal, at least where I am? It's the hard-working Mexican-American who wants a little relief for his family. It's blacks who grew up in crummy neighborhoods who their whole world just seemed to be pushing them down an inescapable cycle of poverty and crime. It's other young white people who took the baby boomer path pushed on them only to find student debt, lack of jobs, and the dreams of things like home-ownership unrealistic in the modern world.

It's people who have felt marginalized for most of their lives, if not for multiple-generations, and Trump built his platform on further distrusting them. And somehow you're surprised they might feel Trump's support base is a little racist?

Now let me backtrack. I understand there's a lot of white, middle America that's been hit hard too. Loss of manufacturing. The whole rust belt. Small towns where service industry isn't a fallback. They're also the marginalized. [This article](http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/), #1#despite being cracked and kinda buzzfeed-y at first glance with the gifs and stuff, actually was real eye-opening on their perspective.#1# But just as he has to admit his views on the cities were manipulated and false, and I have to understand Trump's support is not all Confederate Flag wearing, gun-toting, rednecks -- so do you have to let go of this idea of the pervasive "smug liberal".

And all Trump was doing was puppeting one marginalized group against another. You saying "many of us voted for him just to piss off liberals" is playing right into his hand, same as the other side saying all Trump supporters are racists and sexist. Never that I can remember had a political run on such a division platform. Bush, for all his faults, never insulted a race of people, in fact, despite my dislike of him, he did a great job promoting American unity, especially post 9/11 -- including Muslims. I don't mean just by not saying anything bad about them, he went out of his way to praise them and accept them. Likewise liberal shows may have poked fun of Bush as airheaded, but it was hardly out of line from normal political satire.

So sure, the liberal side maybe took the bait too hard, but so did you.



http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/
HOW HALF OF AMERICA LOST ITS F**KING MIND
"But Trump is objectively a piece of shit!" you say. "He insults people, he objectifies women, and cheats whenever possible! And he's not an everyman; he's a smarmy, arrogant billionaire!"

Wait, are you talking about Donald Trump, or this guy:

Marvel Studios

Make The Avengers Assemble Again.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

#1#You've never rooted for somebody like that? Someone powerful who gives your enemies the insults they deserve? Somebody with big fun appetites who screws up just enough to make them relatable? Like Dr. House or Walter White? Or any of the several million renegade cop characters who can break all the rules because they get shit done? Who only get shit done because they don't care about the rules?#1#

"But those are fictional characters!" Okay, what about all those millionaire left-leaning talk show hosts? You think they keep their insults classy? Tune into any bit about Chris Christie and start counting down the seconds until the fat joke. Google David Letterman's sex scandals. But it's okay, because they're on our side, and everybody wants an asshole on their team -- a spiked bat to smash their enemies with. That's all Trump is. The howls of elite outrage are like the sounds of bombs landing on the enemy's fortress. The louder the better.

Kevin Winter/Getty Images

And when cameras record said elites BFFing with their supposed enemy, even better.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

Already some of you have gotten angry, feeling this gut-level revulsion at any attempt to excuse or even understand these people. After all, they're hardly people, right? Aren't they just a mass of ignorant, rageful, crude, cursing, spitting subhumans?

Gee, I hope not. I have to hug a bunch of them at Thanksgiving. And when I do, it will be with the knowledge that if I hadn't moved away, I'd be on the other side of the fence, leaving nasty comments on this article the alternate universe version of me wrote.

Cracked

And not just because I reminded Rural Me of Billy Joel's worst song ever.

It feels good to dismiss people, to mock them, to write them off as deplorables. But you might as well take time to try to understand them, because I'm telling you, they'll still be around long after Trump is gone.

David Wong is the Executive Editor of Cracked, his most recent novel is now in development as a TV series and just came out in paperback. Robert Evans googled like a motherfucker for this article. You should buy his book.

The discussion doesn't end here. David talks about this article on this week's episode of the Cracked podcast.

For more from David Wong, check out The Baffling Stories Behind Our Epidemic Of Mass Killers and Why Anxiety Is The Plague Of The Modern World .

Subscribe to our YouTube channel, and check out What Trump Does With His Mouth When He's Not Speaking, and other videos you won't see on the site!

Follow us on Facebook, and give us a big hug, please.

Consider the novel Uncle Tom's Cabin. The book is dominated by a single theme: the evil and immorality of slavery and upon publication, it ignited a firestorm of protest from defenders of slavery (who created a number of books in response to the novel) while the book elicited praise from abolitionists. #1#As a best-seller, the novel heavily influenced later protest literature.#1# [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Tom%27s_Cabin#Reactions_to_the_novel)

Even though this book was just a novel and many people found it outrageous, it was still able to trigger a national debate on the morality of slavery.

I do agree that a large amount of reading is done just for entertainment and so in a lot of contexts is no better than TV.  But another more modern example, even though it was published 50 years ago, might be all the people that read Ayn Rand novels like Atlas Shrugged and become libertarians as a result.   People are still reading them today and adopting her political philosophies just based on the characters and situations that she discusses in her novels.

I tend to think that the author of novels tend to put more thought into abstract ideas they want to portray in their novels than TV, but of course there are plenty examples to the contrary like cheap romance novels.  Take a TV example of Star Trek the Next Generation where the main character would fly around and meet aliens who he'd try to understand.  People were always trying to jump to conclusions about situations, but he would always patiently try to sort out the details and find there were deeper truths to what motivated people.  It sends strong messages about how we should attempt to deal with people different than ourselves.  They also had anti-capitalist themes by demonstrating a society with no money but then having a race of aliens that were obsessed with money and showing the evil of that.  TV is also capable of changing political philosophies and making us question how we treat others.




https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Tom%27s_Cabin#Reactions_to_the_novel
UNCLE TOM'S CABIN
This article is about the mid-19th century novel. For other uses, see Uncle Tom's Cabin (disambiguation)

Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly,[1][2] is an anti-slavery novel by American author Harriet Beecher Stowe. Published in 1852, the novel "helped lay the groundwork for the Civil War", according to Will Kaufman.[3]

Stowe, a Connecticut-born teacher at the Hartford Female Seminary and an active abolitionist, featured the character of Uncle Tom, a long-suffering black slave around whom the stories of other characters revolve. The sentimental novel depicts the reality of slavery while also asserting that Christian love can overcome something as destructive as enslavement of fellow human beings.[4][5][6]

#1#Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel of the 19th century and the second best-selling book of that century, following the Bible.[7][8] It is credited with helping fuel the abolitionist cause in the 1850s.#1#[9] In the first year after it was published, 300,000 copies of the book were sold in the United States; one million copies in Great Britain.[10] In 1855, three years after it was published, it was called "the most popular novel of our day."[11] The impact attributed to the book is great, reinforced by a story that when Abraham Lincoln met Stowe at the start of the Civil War, Lincoln declared, "So this is the little lady who started this great war."[12] The quote is apocryphal; it did not appear in print until 1896, and it has been argued that "The long-term durability of Lincoln's greeting as an anecdote in literary studies and Stowe scholarship can perhaps be explained in part by the desire among many contemporary intellectuals ... to affirm the role of literature as an agent of social change."[13]

The book and the plays it inspired helped popularize a number of stereotypes about black people.[14] These include the affectionate, dark-skinned "mammy"; the "pickaninny" stereotype of black children; and the "Uncle Tom", or dutiful, long-suffering servant faithful to his white master or mistress. In recent years, the negative associations with Uncle Tom's Cabin have, to an extent, overshadowed the historical impact of the book as a "vital antislavery tool."[15]

Sources

Stowe, a Connecticut-born teacher at the Hartford Female Seminary and an active abolitionist, wrote the novel as a response to the passage, in 1850, of the second Fugitive Slave Act. Much of the book was composed in Brunswick, Maine, where her husband, Calvin Ellis Stowe, taught at his alma mater, Bowdoin College.

Stowe was partly inspired to create Uncle Tom's Cabin by the slave narrative The Life of Josiah Henson, Formerly a Slave, Now an Inhabitant of Canada, as Narrated by Himself (1849). Henson, a formerly enslaved black man, had lived and worked on a 3,700 acres (15 km2) tobacco plantation in North Bethesda, Maryland, owned by Isaac Riley.[16] Henson escaped slavery in 1830 by fleeing to the Province of Upper Canada (now Ontario), where he helped other fugitive slaves settle and become self-sufficient, and where he wrote his memoirs. Stowe acknowledged in 1853 that Henson's writings inspired Uncle Tom's Cabin.[17] When Stowe's work became a best-seller, Henson republished his memoirs as The Memoirs of Uncle Tom and traveled on lecture tours extensively in the United States and Europe.[16] Stowe's novel lent its name to Henson's home—Uncle Tom's Cabin Historic Site, near Dresden, Canada—which since the 1940s has been a museum. The cabin where Henson lived while he was enslaved no longer exists, but a cabin on the Riley farm erroneously thought to be the Henson Cabin was purchased by the Montgomery County, Maryland, government in 2006.[18] It is now a part of the National Park Service National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom program,[19] and plans are underway to build a museum and interpretive center on the site.

American Slavery As It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses, a volume co-authored by Theodore Dwight Weld and the Grimké sisters, is also a source of some of the novel's content.[20] Stowe said she based the novel on a number of interviews with people who escaped slavery during the time when she was living in Cincinnati, Ohio, across the Ohio River from Kentucky, a slave state. In Cincinnati the Underground Railroad had local abolitionist sympathizers and was active in efforts to help runaway slaves on their escape route from the South.

Stowe mentioned a number of the inspirations and sources for her novel in A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin (1853). This non-fiction book was intended to verify Stowe's claims about slavery.[21] However, later research indicated that Stowe did not read many of the book's cited works until after she had published her novel.[21]

Publication

The National Era, June 5, 1851 , June 5, 1851

Uncle Tom's Cabin first appeared as a 40-week serial in The National Era, an abolitionist periodical, starting with the June 5, 1851, issue. It was originally intended as a shorter narrative that would run for only a few weeks. Stowe expanded the story significantly, however, and it was instantly popular, such that several protests were sent to the Era office when she missed an issue.[22] Because of the story's popularity, the publisher John P. Jewett contacted Stowe about turning the serial into a book. While Stowe questioned if anyone would read Uncle Tom's Cabin in book form, she eventually consented to the request.

Convinced the book would be popular, Jewett made the unusual decision (for the time) to have six full-page illustrations by Hammatt Billings engraved for the first printing.[23] Published in book form on March 20, 1852, the novel sold 3,000 copies on that day alone,[22] and soon sold out its complete print run. A number of other editions were soon printed (including a deluxe edition in 1853, featuring 117 illustrations by Billings).[24]

In the first year of publication, 300,000 copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin were sold. At that point, however, "demand came to an unexpected halt.... No more copies were produced for many years, and if, as is claimed, Abraham Lincoln greeted Stowe in 1862 as 'the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war,' the work had effectively been out of print for many years." Jewett went out of business, and it was not until Ticknor and Fields put the work back in print in November 1862 that demand began again to increase.[25]

The book was translated into all major languages, and in the United States it became the second best-selling book after the Bible.[7] A number of the early editions carried an introduction by Rev James Sherman, a Congregational minister in London noted for his abolitionist views. Uncle Tom's Cabin sold equally well in Britain, with the first London edition appearing in May 1852 and selling 200,000 copies.[26] In a few years over 1.5 million copies of the book were in circulation in Britain, although most of these were infringing copies (a similar situation occurred in the United States).[27]

Plot

Eliza escapes with her son, Tom sold "down the river"

Uncle Tom's Cabin depicts Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and she is running away to save her child (first edition: Boston: Full-page illustration by Hammatt Billings fordepicts Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and she is running away to save her child (first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company , 1852).

The book opens with a Kentucky farmer named Arthur Shelby facing the loss of his farm because of debts. Even though he and his wife Emily Shelby believe that they have a benevolent relationship with their slaves, Shelby decides to raise the needed funds by selling two of them—Uncle Tom, a middle-aged man with a wife and children, and Harry, the son of Emily Shelby's maid Eliza—to a slave trader. Emily Shelby is averse to this idea because she had promised her maid that her child would never be sold; Emily's son, George Shelby, hates to see Tom go because he sees the man as his friend and mentor.

When Eliza overhears Mr. and Mrs. Shelby discussing plans to sell Tom and Harry, Eliza determines to run away with her son. The novel states that Eliza made this decision because she fears losing her only surviving child (she had already miscarried two children). Eliza departs that night, leaving a note of apology to her mistress.

Tom is sold and placed on a riverboat which sets sail down the Mississippi River. While on board, Tom meets and befriends a young white girl named Eva. Eva's father Augustine St. Clare buys Tom from the slave trader and takes him with the family to their home in New Orleans. Tom and Eva begin to relate to one another because of the deep Christian faith they both share.

Eliza's family hunted, Tom's life with St. Clare

Uncle Tom's Cabin. Illustration of Tom and Eva by Hammatt Billings for the 1853 deluxe edition of

During Eliza's escape, she meets up with her husband George Harris, who had run away previously. They decide to attempt to reach Canada. However, they are tracked by a slave hunter named Tom Loker. Eventually Loker and his men trap Eliza and her family, causing George to shoot him in the side. Worried that Loker may die, Eliza convinces George to bring the slave hunter to a nearby Quaker settlement for medical treatment.

Back in New Orleans, St. Clare debates slavery with his Northern cousin Ophelia who, while opposing slavery, is prejudiced against black people. St. Clare, however, believes he is not biased, even though he is a slave owner. In an attempt to show Ophelia that her views on blacks are wrong, St. Clare purchases Topsy, a young black slave, and asks Ophelia to educate her.

After Tom has lived with the St. Clares for two years, Eva grows very ill. Before she dies she experiences a vision of heaven, which she shares with the people around her. As a result of her death and vision, the other characters resolve to change their lives, with Ophelia promising to throw off her personal prejudices against blacks, Topsy saying she will better herself, and St. Clare pledging to free Tom.

Tom sold to Simon Legree

Before St. Clare can follow through on his pledge, however, he dies after being stabbed outside of a tavern. His wife reneges on her late husband's vow and sells Tom at auction to a vicious plantation owner named Simon Legree. Legree (a transplanted northerner) takes Tom and Emmeline (whom Legree purchased at the same time) to rural Louisiana, where they meet Legree's other slaves.

Uncle Tom's Cabin (first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company, 1852). Cassy, another of Legree's slaves, is shown ministering to Uncle Tom after his whipping. Full page illustration by Hammatt Billings for(first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company, 1852). Cassy, another of Legree's slaves, is shown ministering to Uncle Tom after his whipping.

Legree begins to hate Tom when Tom refuses Legree's order to whip his fellow slave. Legree beats Tom viciously and resolves to crush his new slave's faith in God. Despite Legree's cruelty, however, Tom refuses to stop reading his Bible and comforting the other slaves as best he can. While at the plantation, Tom meets Cassy, another of Legree's slaves. Cassy was previously separated from her son and daughter when they were sold; unable to endure the pain of seeing another child sold, she killed her third child.

At this point Tom Loker returns to the story. Loker has changed as the result of being healed by the Quakers. George, Eliza, and Harry have also obtained their freedom after crossing into Canada. In Louisiana, Uncle Tom almost succumbs to hopelessness as his faith in God is tested by the hardships of the plantation. However, he has two visions, one of Jesus and one of Eva, which renew his resolve to remain a faithful Christian, even unto death. He encourages Cassy to escape, which she does, taking Emmeline with her. When Tom refuses to tell Legree where Cassy and Emmeline have gone, Legree orders his overseers to kill Tom. As Tom is dying, he forgives the overseers who savagely beat him. Humbled by the character of the man they have killed, both men become Christians. Very shortly before Tom's death, George Shelby (Arthur Shelby's son) arrives to buy Tom's freedom but finds he is too late.

Final section

On their boat ride to freedom, Cassy and Emmeline meet George Harris's sister and accompany her to Canada. Cassy discovers that Eliza is her long-lost daughter who was sold as a child. Now that their family is together again, they travel to France and eventually Liberia, the African nation created for former American slaves. George Shelby returns to the Kentucky farm and frees all his slaves. George tells them to remember Tom's sacrifice and his belief in the true meaning of Christianity.

Major characters

Uncle Tom

Simon Legree assaults Uncle Tom.

Uncle Tom, the title character, was initially seen as a noble, long-suffering Christian slave. In more recent years, however, his name has become an epithet directed towards African-Americans who are accused of selling out to whites. Stowe intended Tom to be a "noble hero"[28] and praiseworthy person. Throughout the book, far from allowing himself to be exploited, Tom stands up for his beliefs and is grudgingly admired even by his enemies.

Eliza

Eliza is a slave and personal maid to Mrs. Shelby who escapes to the North with her five-year-old son Harry after he is sold to Mr. Haley. Her husband, George, eventually finds Eliza and Harry in Ohio and emigrates with them to Canada, then France and finally Liberia.

The character Eliza was inspired by an account given at Lane Theological Seminary in Cincinnati by John Rankin to Stowe's husband Calvin, a professor at the school. According to Rankin, in February 1838 a young slave woman, Eliza Harris, had escaped across the frozen Ohio River to the town of Ripley with her child in her arms and stayed at his house on her way further north.[29]

Eva

Evangeline St. Clare is the daughter of Augustine St. Clare. Eva enters the narrative when Uncle Tom is traveling via steamship to New Orleans to be sold, and he rescues the five- or six-year-old girl from drowning. Eva begs her father to buy Tom, and he becomes the head coachman at the St. Clare house. He spends most of his time with the angelic Eva. Eva often talks about love and forgiveness, even convincing the dour slave girl Topsy that she deserves love. She even touches the heart of her Aunt Ophelia.

Eventually Eva falls terminally ill. Before dying, she gives a lock of her hair to each of the slaves, telling them that they must become Christians so that they may see each other in Heaven. On her deathbed, she convinces her father to free Tom, but because of circumstances the promise never materializes.

A similar character, also named Little Eva, later appeared in the children's novel Little Eva: The Flower of the South by Philip J. Cozans (although this ironically was an anti-Tom novel).

Simon Legree

Uncle Tom's Cabin (Classic Comics No. 15, November 1943 issue). Simon Legree on the cover of the comic book adaptation ofNo. 15, November 1943 issue).

Simon Legree is a cruel slave owner—a Northerner by birth—whose name has become synonymous with greed. He is arguably the novel's main antagonist. His goal is to demoralize Tom and break him of his religious faith; he eventually orders Tom whipped to death out of frustration for his slave's unbreakable belief in God. The novel reveals that, as a young man, he had abandoned his sickly mother for a life at sea and ignored her letter to see her one last time at her deathbed. He sexually exploits Cassy, who despises him, and later sets his designs on Emmeline.

It is unclear if Legree is based on any actual individuals. Reports surfaced after the 1870s that Stowe had in mind a wealthy cotton and sugar plantation owner named Meredith Calhoun, who settled on the Red River north of Alexandria, Louisiana. Generally, however, the personal characteristics of Calhoun ("highly educated and refined") do not match the uncouthness and brutality of Legree. Calhoun even edited his own newspaper, published in Colfax (originally "Calhoun's Landing"), which was renamed The National Democrat after Calhoun's death. However, Calhoun's overseers may have been in line with the hated Legree's methods and motivations.[30]

Other characters

The more notable of the secondary and minor characters in Uncle Tom's Cabin are:

Arthur Shelby – Tom's master in Kentucky. Shelby is characterized as a "kind" slaveowner and a stereotypical Southern gentleman.

– Tom's master in Kentucky. Shelby is characterized as a "kind" slaveowner and a stereotypical Southern gentleman. Emily Shelby – Arthur Shelby's wife. She is a deeply religious woman who strives to be a kind and moral influence upon her slaves and is appalled when her husband sells his slaves with a slave trader. As a woman, she has no legal way to stop this, as all property belongs to her husband.

– Arthur Shelby's wife. She is a deeply religious woman who strives to be a kind and moral influence upon her slaves and is appalled when her husband sells his slaves with a slave trader. As a woman, she has no legal way to stop this, as all property belongs to her husband. George Shelby – Arthur and Emily's son, who sees Tom as a friend and as the perfect Christian.

– Arthur and Emily's son, who sees Tom as a friend and as the perfect Christian. Chloe – Tom's wife and mother of his children.

– Tom's wife and mother of his children. Augustine St. Clare – Tom's third owner and father of Eva. St. Clare is complex, often sarcastic, with a ready wit. After a rocky courtship he marries a woman he grows to hold in contempt, though he is too polite to let it show. St. Clare recognizes the evil in chattel slavery but is not willing to relinquish the wealth it brings him. After his daughter's death he becomes more sincere in his religious thoughts and starts to read the Bible to Tom. He plans on finally taking action against slavery by freeing his slaves, but his good intentions ultimately come to nothing.

– Tom's third owner and father of Eva. St. Clare is complex, often sarcastic, with a ready wit. After a rocky courtship he marries a woman he grows to hold in contempt, though he is too polite to let it show. St. Clare recognizes the evil in chattel slavery but is not willing to relinquish the wealth it brings him. After his daughter's death he becomes more sincere in his religious thoughts and starts to read the Bible to Tom. He plans on finally taking action against slavery by freeing his slaves, but his good intentions ultimately come to nothing. Marie St. Clare – Wife of Augustine, she is a self-absorbed woman without a hint of compassion for those around her, including her own family. Given to an unending list of (apparently imaginary) physical maladies, she continually complains about the lack of sympathy she is receiving. She has separated her personal maid, Mammy, from her own two children because they would interfere with her duties. As Marie drives Mammy to exhaustion, she criticizes her for selfishly seeking to attend her own family. Upon the unexpected death of Augustine, Marie countermands the legal process that would have given Tom his freedom.

– Wife of Augustine, she is a self-absorbed woman without a hint of compassion for those around her, including her own family. Given to an unending list of (apparently imaginary) physical maladies, she continually complains about the lack of sympathy she is receiving. She has separated her personal maid, Mammy, from her own two children because they would interfere with her duties. As Marie drives Mammy to exhaustion, she criticizes her for selfishly seeking to attend her own family. Upon the unexpected death of Augustine, Marie countermands the legal process that would have given Tom his freedom. George Harris – Eliza's husband. An intelligent and clever half-white slave who is fiercely loyal to his family.

Topsy – A young slave girl. When asked if she knows who made her, she professes ignorance of both God and a mother, saying "I s'pect I growed. Don't think nobody never made me." She is transformed by Eva's love. During the early-to-mid 20th century, several doll manufacturers created Topsy and Topsy-type dolls. The phrase "growed like Topsy" (later "grew like Topsy") passed into the English language, originally with the specific meaning of unplanned growth, later sometimes just meaning enormous growth. [31]

– A young slave girl. When asked if she knows who made her, she professes ignorance of both God and a mother, saying "I s'pect I growed. Don't think nobody never made me." She is transformed by Eva's love. During the early-to-mid 20th century, several doll manufacturers created Topsy and Topsy-type dolls. The phrase "growed like Topsy" (later "grew like Topsy") passed into the English language, originally with the specific meaning of unplanned growth, later sometimes just meaning enormous growth. Miss Ophelia – Augustine St. Clare's pious, hard-working, abolitionist cousin from Vermont. She displays the ambiguities towards African-Americans felt by many Northerners at the time. She argues against the institution of slavery yet, at least initially, feels repulsed by the slaves as individuals.

– Augustine St. Clare's pious, hard-working, abolitionist cousin from Vermont. She displays the ambiguities towards African-Americans felt by many Northerners at the time. She argues against the institution of slavery yet, at least initially, feels repulsed by the slaves as individuals. Prue – A depressed slave who was forced to let her child starve to death. She takes up drinking in her misery, and is ultimately beaten and killed for it.

– A depressed slave who was forced to let her child starve to death. She takes up drinking in her misery, and is ultimately beaten and killed for it. Quimbo and Sambo – slaves of Simon Legree who act as overseers of the plantation. On orders from Legree, they savagely whip Tom but afterward tearfully repent of their deeds to Tom, who forgives them as he lies dying.

Major themes

Uncle Tom's Cabin is dominated by a single theme: the evil and immorality of slavery.[32] While Stowe weaves other subthemes throughout her text, such as the moral authority of motherhood and the redeeming possibilities offered by Christianity,[5] she emphasizes the connections between these and the horrors of slavery. Stowe sometimes changed the story's voice so she could give a "homily" on the destructive nature of slavery[33] (such as when a white woman on the steamboat carrying Tom further south states, "The most dreadful part of slavery, to my mind, is its outrages of feelings and affections—the separating of families, for example.").[34] One way Stowe showed the evil of slavery[26] was how this "peculiar institution" forcibly separated families from each other.[35] One of the subthemes presented in the novel is temperance. Stowe made it somewhat subtle and in some cases she weaved it into events that would also support the dominant theme. One example of this is when Augustine St. Clare is killed, he attempted to stop a brawl between two inebriated men in a cafe and was stabbed. One other example is the death of the slave woman Prue who was whipped to death for being drunk on a consistent basis; however, her reasons for doing so is due to the loss of her baby. In the opening of the novel, the fates of Eliza and her son are being discussed between slave owners over wine. Considering that Stowe intended this to be a subtheme, this scene could foreshadow future events that put alcohol in a bad light.

Uncle Tom's Cabin, first edition. The image shows George Harris, Eliza, Harry, and Mrs. Smyth after they escape to freedom. "The fugitives are safe in a free land." Illustration by Hammatt Billings for, first edition. The image shows George Harris, Eliza, Harry, and Mrs. Smyth after they escape to freedom.

Because Stowe saw motherhood as the "ethical and structural model for all of American life"[36] and also believed that only women had the moral authority to save[37] the United States from the demon of slavery, another major theme of Uncle Tom's Cabin is the moral power and sanctity of women. Through characters like Eliza, who escapes from slavery to save her young son (and eventually reunites her entire family), or Eva, who is seen as the "ideal Christian",[38] Stowe shows how she believed women could save those around them from even the worst injustices. While later critics have noted that Stowe's female characters are often domestic clichés instead of realistic women,[39] Stowe's novel "reaffirmed the importance of women's influence" and helped pave the way for the women's rights movement in the following decades.[40]

Stowe's puritanical religious beliefs show up in the novel's final, overarching theme—the exploration of the nature of Christianity[5] and how she feels Christian theology is fundamentally incompatible with slavery.[41] This theme is most evident when Tom urges St. Clare to "look away to Jesus" after the death of St. Clare's beloved daughter Eva. After Tom dies, George Shelby eulogizes Tom by saying, "What a thing it is to be a Christian."[42] Because Christian themes play such a large role in Uncle Tom's Cabin—and because of Stowe's frequent use of direct authorial interjections on religion and faith—the novel often takes the "form of a sermon."[43]

Style

Eliza crossing the icy river, in an 1881 theater poster

Uncle Tom's Cabin is written in the sentimental[44] and melodramatic style common to 19th century sentimental novels[8] and domestic fiction (also called women's fiction). These genres were the most popular novels of Stowe's time and tended to feature female main characters and a writing style which evoked a reader's sympathy and emotion.[45] Even though Stowe's novel differs from other sentimental novels by focusing on a large theme like slavery and by having a man as the main character, she still set out to elicit certain strong feelings from her readers.[46] The power in this type of writing can be seen in the reaction of contemporary readers. Georgiana May, a friend of Stowe's, wrote a letter to the author, saying: "I was up last night long after one o'clock, reading and finishing Uncle Tom's Cabin. I could not leave it any more than I could have left a dying child."[47] Another reader is described as obsessing on the book at all hours and having considered renaming her daughter Eva.[48] Evidently the death of Little Eva affected a lot of people at that time, because in 1852, 300 baby girls in Boston alone were given that name.[48]

Despite this positive reaction from readers, for decades literary critics dismissed the style found in Uncle Tom's Cabin and other sentimental novels because these books were written by women and so prominently featured "women's sloppy emotions."[49] One literary critic said that had the novel not been about slavery, "it would be just another sentimental novel,"[50] while another described the book as "primarily a derivative piece of hack work."[51] In The Literary History of the United States, George F. Whicher called Uncle Tom's Cabin "Sunday-school fiction", full of "broadly conceived melodrama, humor, and pathos."[52]

However, in 1985 Jane Tompkins expressed a different view of Uncle Tom's Cabin with her book In Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction.[49] Tompkins praised the style so many other critics had dismissed, writing that sentimental novels showed how women's emotions had the power to change the world for the better. She also said that the popular domestic novels of the 19th century, including Uncle Tom's Cabin, were remarkable for their "intellectual complexity, ambition, and resourcefulness"; and that Uncle Tom's Cabin offers a "critique of American society far more devastating than any delivered by better-known critics such as Hawthorne and Melville."[52]

This view remains the subject of dispute. Writing in 2001, legal scholar Richard Posner described Uncle Tom's Cabin as part of the mediocre list of canonical works that emerges when political criteria are imposed on literature.[53]

Reactions to the novel

Uncle Tom's Cabin has exerted an influence equaled by few other novels in history.[54] Upon publication, Uncle Tom's Cabin ignited a firestorm of protest from defenders of slavery (who created a number of books in response to the novel) while the book elicited praise from abolitionists. As a best-seller, the novel heavily influenced later protest literature.

Contemporary and world reaction

Uncle Tom's Cabin outraged people in the American South.[26] The novel was also roundly criticized by slavery supporters.

Acclaimed Southern novelist William Gilmore Simms declared the work utterly false,[55] while others called the novel criminal and slanderous.[56] Reactions ranged from a bookseller in Mobile, Alabama, being forced to leave town for selling the novel[26] to threatening letters sent to Stowe (including a package containing a slave's severed ear).[26] Many Southern writers, like Simms, soon wrote their own books in opposition to Stowe's novel.[57]

Some critics highlighted Stowe's paucity of life-experience relating to Southern life, saying that it led her to create inaccurate descriptions of the region. For instance, she had never been to a Southern plantation. However, Stowe always said she based the characters of her book on stories she was told by runaway slaves in Cincinnati. It is reported that "She observed firsthand several incidents which galvanized her to write [the] famous anti-slavery novel. Scenes she observed on the Ohio River, including seeing a husband and wife being sold apart, as well as newspaper and magazine accounts and interviews, contributed material to the emerging plot."[58]

A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, first edition cover, 1853 , first edition cover, 1853

In response to these criticisms, in 1853 Stowe published A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, an attempt to document the veracity of the novel's depiction of slavery. In the book, Stowe discusses each of the major characters in Uncle Tom's Cabin and cites "real life equivalents" to them while also mounting a more "aggressive attack on slavery in the South than the novel itself had."[21] Like the novel, A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin was a best-seller. However, while Stowe claimed A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin documented her previously consulted sources, she actually read many of the cited works only after the publication of her novel.[21] A major part of the Key was Stowe's critique of how the legal system supported slavery and licensed owners' mistreatment of slaves. Thus, Stowe put more than slavery on trial; she put the law on trial. This continued an important theme of Uncle Tom's Cabin—that the shadow of law brooded over the institution of slavery and allowed owners to mistreat slaves and then avoid punishment for their mistreatment. In some cases, as Stowe pointed out, it even prevented kind owners from freeing their slaves.[56]

Despite these criticisms, the novel still captured the imagination of many Americans. According to Stowe's son, when Abraham Lincoln met her in 1862 Lincoln commented, "So this is the little lady who started this great war."[12] Historians are undecided if Lincoln actually said this line, and in a letter that Stowe wrote to her husband a few hours after meeting with Lincoln no mention of this comment was made.[59] Since then, many writers have credited this novel with focusing Northern anger at the injustices of slavery and the Fugitive Slave Law[59] and helping to fuel the abolitionist movement.[9] Union general and politician James Baird Weaver said that the book convinced him to become active in the abolitionist movement.[60]

Uncle Tom's Cabin also created great interest in the United Kingdom. The first London edition appeared in May 1852 and sold 200,000 copies.[26] Some of this interest was because of British antipathy to America. As one prominent writer explained, "The evil passions which Uncle Tom gratified in England were not hatred or vengeance [of slavery], but national jealousy and national vanity. We have long been smarting under the conceit of America—we are tired of hearing her boast that she is the freest and the most enlightened country that the world has ever seen. Our clergy hate her voluntary system—our Tories hate her democrats—our Whigs hate her parvenus—our Radicals hate her litigiousness, her insolence, and her ambition. All parties hailed Mrs. Stowe as a revolter from the enemy."[61] Charles Francis Adams, the American minister to Britain during the war, argued later that "Uncle Tom's Cabin; or Life among the Lowly, published in 1852, exercised, largely from fortuitous circumstances, a more immediate, considerable and dramatic world-influence than any other book ever printed."[62]

A French edition, translated by M. L. Carion (or by [Anne-]Louise Swanton-Belloc? (1796–1881)), appeared by 1853 published in Cambrai and in Paris.[63] By 1857, the novel had been translated into 20 languages,[64] including two independent translations into Slovene just one year after its original publication,[65] which started the since-then uninterrupted dialogue between American authors and Slovene translators and readers.[66] Later, it was translated into almost every major language, including Chinese (with translator Lin Shu creating the first Chinese translation of an American novel in 1901) and Amharic (with the 1930 translation created in support of Ethiopian efforts to end the suffering of blacks in that nation).[67] The book was so widely read that Sigmund Freud reported a number of patients with sado-masochistic tendencies who he believed had been influenced by reading about the whipping of slaves in Uncle Tom's Cabin.[68]

Literary significance and criticism

As the first widely read political novel in the United States,[69] Uncle Tom's Cabin greatly influenced development of not only American literature but also protest literature in general. Later books which owe a large debt to Uncle Tom's Cabin include The Jungle by Upton Sinclair and Silent Spring by Rachel Carson.[70]

Despite this undisputed significance, Uncle Tom's Cabin has been called "a blend of children's fable and propaganda."[71] The novel has also been dismissed by a number of literary critics as "merely a sentimental novel,"[50] while critic George Whicher stated in his Literary History of the United States that "Nothing attributable to Mrs. Stowe or her handiwork can account for the novel's enormous vogue; its author's resources as a purveyor of Sunday-school fiction were not remarkable. She had at most a ready command of broadly conceived melodrama, humor, and pathos, and of these popular sentiments she compounded her book."[52]

Other critics, though, have praised the novel. Edmund Wilson stated that "To expose oneself in maturity to Uncle Tom's Cabin may ... prove a startling experience."[71] Jane Tompkins states that the novel is one of the classics of American literature and wonders if many literary critics dismiss the book because it was simply too popular during its day.[52]

Over the years scholars have postulated a number of theories about what Stowe was trying to say with the novel (aside from the obvious themes, such as condemning slavery). For example, as an ardent Christian and active abolitionist, Stowe placed many of her religious beliefs into the novel.[72] Some scholars have stated that Stowe saw her novel as offering a solution to the moral and political dilemma that troubled many slavery opponents: whether engaging in prohibited behavior was justified in opposing evil. Was the use of violence to oppose the violence of slavery and the breaking of proslavery laws morally defensible? Which of Stowe's characters should be emulated, the passive Uncle Tom or the defiant George Harris?[73] Stowe's solution was similar to Ralph Waldo Emerson's: God's will would be followed if each person sincerely examined his principles and acted on them.[73]

Scholars have also seen the novel as expressing the values and ideas of the Free Will Movement.[74] In this view, the character of George Harris embodies the principles of free labor, while the complex character of Ophelia represents those Northerners who condoned compromise with slavery. In contrast to Ophelia is Dinah, who operates on passion. During the course of the novel Ophelia is transformed, just as the Republican Party (three years later) proclaimed that the North must transform itself and stand up for its antislavery principles.[74]

Feminist theory can also be seen at play in Stowe's book, with the novel as a critique of the patriarchal nature of slavery.[75] For Stowe, blood relations rather than paternalistic relations between masters and slaves formed the basis of families. Moreover, Stowe viewed national solidarity as an extension of a person's family, thus feelings of nationality stemmed from possessing a shared race. Consequently, she advocated African colonization for freed slaves and not amalgamation into American society.

The book has also been seen as an attempt to redefine masculinity as a necessary step toward the abolition of slavery.[76] In this view, abolitionists had begun to resist the vision of aggressive and dominant men that the conquest and colonization of the early 19th century had fostered. In order to change the notion of manhood so that men could oppose slavery without jeopardizing their self-image or their standing in society, some abolitionists drew on principles of women's suffrage and Christianity as well as passivism, and praised men for cooperation, compassion, and civic spirit. Others within the abolitionist movement argued for conventional, aggressive masculine action. All the men in Stowe's novel are representations of either one kind of man or the other.[76]

Creation and popularization of stereotypes

Uncle Tom's Cabin. The character of Sam helped create the stereotype of the lazy, carefree "happy darky". Illustration of Sam from the 1888 "New Edition" of. The character of Sam helped create the stereotype of the lazy, carefree "happy darky".

Modern scholars and readers have criticized the book for what are seen as condescending racist descriptions of the book's black characters, especially with regard to the characters' appearances, speech, and behavior, as well as the passive nature of Uncle Tom in accepting his fate.[77] The novel's creation and use of common stereotypes about African Americans[14] is significant because Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel in the world during the 19th century.[7] As a result, the book (along with illustrations from the book[78] and associated stage productions) played a major role in permanently ingraining these stereotypes into the American psyche.[77]

Among the stereotypes of blacks in Uncle Tom's Cabin are[15] the "happy darky" (in the lazy, carefree character of Sam); the light-skinned tragic mulatto as a sex object (in the characters of Eliza, Cassy, and Emmeline); the affectionate, dark-skinned female mammy (through several characters, including Mammy, a cook at the St. Clare plantation); the pickaninny stereotype of black children (in the character of Topsy); the Uncle Tom, an African American who is too eager to please white people. Stowe intended Tom to be a "noble hero". The stereotype of him as a "subservient fool who bows down to the white man" evidently resulted from staged "Tom Shows", over which Stowe had no control.[28]

These negative associations have to a large degree overshadowed the historical impact of Uncle Tom's Cabin as a "vital antislavery tool".[15] The beginning of this change in the novel's perception had its roots in an essay by James Baldwin titled "Everybody's Protest Novel". In the essay, Baldwin called Uncle Tom's Cabin a "very bad novel" which was also racially obtuse and aesthetically crude.[79] In the 1960s and 1970s, the Black Power and Black Arts Movements attacked the novel, saying that the character of Uncle Tom engaged in "race betrayal", and that Tom made slaves out to be worse than slave owners.[79] Criticisms of the other stereotypes in the book also increased during this time. In recent years, however, scholars such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun to re-examine Uncle Tom's Cabin, stating that the book is a "central document in American race relations and a significant moral and political exploration of the character of those relations".[79]

Anti-Tom literature

Aunt Phillis's Cabin by Mary Eastman, one of many examples of anti-Tom literature Title page forby Mary Eastman, one of many examples of anti-Tom literature

In response to Uncle Tom's Cabin, writers in the Southern United States produced a number of books to rebut Stowe's novel. This so-called Anti-Tom literature generally took a pro-slavery viewpoint, arguing that the issues of slavery as depicted in Stowe's book were overblown and incorrect. The novels in this genre tended to feature a benign white patriarchal master and a pure wife, both of whom presided over childlike slaves in a benevolent extended family style plantation. The novels either implied or directly stated that African Americans were a childlike people[80] unable to live their lives without being directly overseen by white people.[81]

Among the most famous anti-Tom books are The Sword and the Distaff by William Gilmore Simms, Aunt Phillis's Cabin by Mary Henderson Eastman, and The Planter's Northern Bride by Caroline Lee Hentz,[82] with the last author having been a close personal friend of Stowe's when the two lived in Cincinnati. Simms' book was published a few months after Stowe's novel, and it contains a number of sections and discussions disputing Stowe's book and her view of slavery. Hentz's 1854 novel, widely read at the time but now largely forgotten, offers a defense of slavery as seen through the eyes of a northern woman—the daughter of an abolitionist, no less—who marries a southern slave owner.

In the decade between the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin and the start of the American Civil War, between twenty and thirty anti-Tom books were published. Among these novels are two books titled Uncle Tom's Cabin As It Is (one by W. L. Smith and the other by C. H. Wiley) and a book by John Pendleton Kennedy. More than half of these anti-Tom books were written by white women, with Simms commenting at one point about the "Seemingly poetic justice of having the Northern woman (Stowe) answered by a Southern woman."[83]

Dramatic adaptations

Tom shows

Even though Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel of the 19th century, far more Americans of that time saw the story as a stage play or musical than read the book.[85] Eric Lott, in his book Uncle Tomitudes: Racial Melodrama and Modes of Production, estimates that at least three million people saw these plays, ten times the book's first-year sales.

Given the lax copyright laws of the time, stage plays based on Uncle Tom's Cabin—"Tom shows"—began to appear while the novel was still being serialized. Stowe refused to authorize dramatization of her work because of her distrust of drama (although she did eventually go to see George L. Aiken's version and, according to Francis Underwood, was "delighted" by Caroline Howard's portrayal of Topsy).[86] Aiken's stage production continued as "the most popular play in England and America for seventy-five years."[87] Stowe's refusal to authorize a particular dramatic version left the field clear for any number of adaptations, some launched for (various) political reasons and others as simply commercial theatrical ventures.

No international copyright laws existed at the time. The book and plays were translated into several languages; Stowe received no money, which could have meant as much as "three fourths of her just and legitimate wages."[88]

On the plays

All Tom shows appear to have incorporated elements of melodrama and blackface minstrelsy.[89] These plays varied tremendously in their politics—some faithfully reflected Stowe's sentimentalized antislavery politics, while others were more moderate, or even pro-slavery.[86] Many of the productions featured demeaning racial caricatures of Black people,[89] while a number of productions also featured songs by Stephen Foster (including "My Old Kentucky Home", "Old Folks at Home", and "Massa's in the Cold Ground").[85] The best-known Tom Shows were those of George Aiken and H.J. Conway.[86]

The version by Aiken is perhaps the best known stage adaptation, released just a few months after the novel was published. This six-act behemoth also set an important precedent by being the first show on Broadway to stand on its own, without the performance of other entertainments or any afterpiece.[90] Most of Aiken's dialogue is lifted verbatim from Stowe's novel and it included four full musical numbers written by the producer, George C. Howard.[91] Another legacy of this adaptation is its reliance upon very different locations all portrayed on the same stage. This reliance led to large sets and set a precedent for the future days of film.[92] By focusing on the stark and desperate situations of his characters, Aiken appealed to the emotions of his audiences.[93] By combining this melodramatic approach with the content of Stowe's novel, Aiken helped to create a powerful visual indictment against the institution of slavery.

The many stage variants of Uncle Tom's Cabin "dominated northern popular culture... for several years" during the 19th century,[86] and the plays were still being performed in the early 20th century.

One of the unique and controversial variants of the Tom Shows was Walt Disney's 1933 Mickey's Mellerdrammer. Mickey's Mellerdrammer is a United Artists film released in 1933. The title is a corruption of "melodrama", thought to harken back to the earliest minstrel shows, as a film short based on a production of Uncle Tom's Cabin by the Disney characters. In that film, Mickey Mouse and friends stage their own production of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Mickey Mouse was already black-colored, but the advertising poster for the film shows Mickey dressed in blackface with exaggerated, orange lips; bushy, white sidewhiskers made out of cotton; and his trademark white gloves.

Film adaptations

Uncle Tom's Cabin has been adapted several times as a film. Most of these movies were created during the silent film era (Uncle Tom's Cabin was the most-filmed book of that time period).[94] Because of the continuing popularity of both the book and "Tom" shows, audiences were already familiar with the characters and the plot, making it easier for the film to be understood without spoken words.[94] There has been no Hollywood treatment since the end of the silent era.

The first film version of Uncle Tom's Cabin was one of the earliest full-length movies (although full-length at that time meant between 10 and 14 minutes).[95] This 1903 film, directed by Edwin S. Porter, used white actors in blackface in the major roles and black performers only as extras. This version was evidently similar to many of the "Tom Shows" of earlier decades and featured numerous stereotypes about blacks (such as having the slaves dance in almost any context, including at a slave auction).[95]

Uncle Tom's Cabin, which was one of the first full-length movies. The still shows Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and that she is running away to save her child. Still from Edwin S. Porter 's 1903 version of, which was one of the first full-length movies. The still shows Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and that she is running away to save her child.

In 1910, a three-reel Vitagraph Company of America production was directed by J. Stuart Blackton and adapted by Eugene Mullin. According to The Dramatic Mirror, this film was "a decided innovation" in motion pictures and "the first time an American company" released a dramatic film in three reels. Until then, full-length movies of the time were 15 minutes long and contained only one reel of film. The movie starred Florence Turner, Mary Fuller, Edwin R. Phillips, Flora Finch, Genevieve Tobin and Carlyle Blackwell, Sr.[96]

At least four more movie adaptations were created in the next two decades. The last silent film version was released in 1927. Directed by Harry A. Pollard (who played Uncle Tom in a 1913 release of Uncle Tom's Cabin), this two-hour movie was more than a year in production and was the third most expensive picture of the silent era (at a cost of $1.8 million). The black actor Charles Gilpin was originally cast in the title role, but he was fired after the studio decided his "portrayal was too aggressive."[97] James B. Lowe took over the character of Tom. The screenplay takes many liberties with the original book, including altering the Eliza and George subplot, introducing the Civil War and Emancipation, and combining the characters of Eliza and Emmeline.[97] Another difference occurs after Tom dies: Simon Legree is haunted by an apparitional vision of the late Tom and falls to his death in a futile effort to attack the ghostly image.

Black media outlets of the time praised the film, but the studio—fearful of a backlash from Southern and white film audiences—ended up cutting out controversial scenes, including the film's opening sequence at a slave auction (in which a mother is torn away from her baby).[98] The story was adapted by Harvey F. Pollard, Thew and A. P. Younger, with titles by Walter Anthony. It starred James B. Lowe, Virginia Grey, George Siegmann, Margarita Fischer, Mona Ray and Madame Sul-Te-Wan.[97]

For several decades after the end of the silent film era, the subject matter of Stowe's novel was judged too sensitive for further film interpretation. In 1946, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer considered filming the story but ceased production after protests led by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.[99]

Uncle Tom's Cabin A movie poster from Kroger Babb 's 1965 production of

A German-language version, Onkel Toms Hütte, directed by Géza von Radványi, was released in 1965 and was presented in the United States by exploitation film presenter Kroger Babb.

The most recent film version was a television broadcast in 1987, directed by Stan Lathan and adapted by John Gay. It starred Avery Brooks, Phylicia Rashad, Edward Woodward, Jenny Lewis, Samuel L. Jackson and Endyia Kinney.

In addition to film adaptations, versions of Uncle Tom's Cabin have been produced in other formats. In Brazil, the adapted version A Cabana do Pai Tomás was produced as a TV soap opera by Rede Globo; with 205 episodes, it was aired from July 1969 to March 1970.

A number of animated cartoons were produced, including the Bugs Bunny cartoon Southern Fried Rabbit (1953), in which Bugs disguises himself as Uncle Tom and sings My Old Kentucky Home in order to cross the Mason-Dixon line; Uncle Tom's Bungalow (1937), a Warner Brothers cartoon supervised by Tex Avery; Eliza on Ice (1944), one of the earliest Mighty Mouse cartoons produced by Paul Terry; and Uncle Tom's Cabaña (1947), an eight-minute cartoon directed by Tex Avery.[99]

Uncle Tom's Cabin has influenced numerous movies, including The Birth of a Nation. This controversial 1915 film set the dramatic climax in a slave cabin similar to that of Uncle Tom, where several white Southerners unite with their former enemy (Yankee soldiers) to defend, according to the film's caption, their "Aryan birthright." According to scholars, this reuse of such a familiar image of a slave cabin would have resonated with, and been understood by, audiences of the time.[100]

Other movies influenced by or making use of Uncle Tom's Cabin include Dimples (a 1936 Shirley Temple film),[99] Uncle Tom's Uncle, (a 1926 Our Gang episode),[99] its 1932 remake Spanky, the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical The King and I (in which a ballet called "Small House of Uncle Thomas" is performed in traditional Siamese style), and Gangs of New York (in which Leonardo DiCaprio and Daniel Day-Lewis's characters attend an imagined wartime adaptation of Uncle Tom's Cabin).

See also

Collections

Major collections of Uncle Tom's Cabin books, ephemera, and artifacts reside at the Albert and Shirley Small Special Collections Library at the University of Virginia and the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.

Notes

References

So what you're saying is 'reading fiction is pointless'. No it isn't. 

This isn't a case of trying to teach you about the value of reading.

 What I'm going to say is this: 'Just because you don't *get it* doesn't mean it isn't a thing.'

This isn't something insignificant like using an emoji at the end of a text. #1#It's WRITTEN FICTION something that has been developed constantly since the beginning of writing some [8000 years ago] #1#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Writing).

So you don't like books. That's fine, but nobody is any under obligation to convince you of it's worth. But since this is CMV I'll link [this page](https://www.google.com.au/search?q=jk+rowling+net+worth&rlz=1C1CHFX_enAU675AU675&oq=jk+r&aqs=chrome.2.0j69i57j0l4.3471j0j9&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8). #2#1 billion is pretty good for someone who wrote something that has no value.#2#

I'd also like to point out that if this really is your opinion it makes you look immature as fuck.

But hey, you don't read.







https://www.google.com.au/search?q=jk+rowling+net+worth&rlz=1C1CHFX_enAU675AU675&oq=jk+r&aqs=chrome.2.0j69i57j0l4.3471j0j9&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
JK ROWLING NET WORTH
#2#Last year Rowling was estimated by the financial magazine to be worth about $1 billion, with most of her money coming from her books and the "Harry Potter" film franchise.#2# But Rowling hasn't been completely forgotten, she does still rank as number 61 on Forbes' list of powerful women.

#1#I don't see an Australian Jedi Party #1# [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_Australia) and #2#the only thing I can find on the Jedi phenomenon was from a [Census]#2#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jedi_census_phenomenon#Australia) and not for voting. #3#Also, that was .37% of the population#3# so hardly a significant amount.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jedi_census_phenomenon#Australia
JEDI CENSUS PHENOMENON
This article is about the census phenomenon. For Jediism the religion, see Jediism

A 2001 map of Jedi census phenomenon's effect in England and Wales

#2#The Jedi census phenomenon is a grassroots movement that was initiated in 2001 for residents of a number of English-speaking countries, urging them to record their religion as "Jedi" or "Jedi Knight" (after the quasi-religious order of Jedi Knights in the fictional Star Wars universe) on the national census.#2#

Impact [ edit ]

Australia [ edit ]

#3#In Australia more than 70,000 people (0.37%) declared themselves members of the Jedi order in the 2001 census.#3#[1] The Australian Bureau of Statistics issued an official press release[2] in response to media interest on the subject. The ABS announced that any answers that were Jedi-related in the religion question were to be classified as "not defined" and stressed the social impact of making misleading or false statements on the census. An ABS spokesperson said that "further analysis of census responses has been undertaken since the release of census data on June 17 to separately identify the number of Jedi-related responses".[1] It is believed that there is no numerical value that determines a religion per definition of the ABS, but there would need to be a belief system or philosophy as well as some form of institutional or organisational structure in place.[3]

The push for Australians to declare themselves as members of the Jedi order was one of the first examples of a concept going "viral" on the internet in Australia. The website which was set up to promote the concept was visited over 100,000 times in a five-week period and was first archived by the Wayback Machine on the 21st of October, 2001.[4]

The 2006 census recorded 58,053 Jedi.[5][6] In the 2011 census, the numbers listing their faith as Jedi had picked up from the 2006 census to 65,000.[7][8]

The Jedi Census phenomenon attracted the attention of sociologist of religion Adam Possamai who discusses it in his book Religion and Popular Culture: A Hyper-Real Testament.[9] Possamai’s study placed Jediism in the context of a specific methodological classification (‘hyper-real religions’) and attempted to demonstrate that hostility existed towards new religions in Australia.[10]

In the lead-up to the 2006 census, there were reports that writing Jedi on the 2006 census could lead to a fine for providing "false or misleading" information. This is despite previous admissions by the ABS that they were "fairly relaxed" about the issue in 2001 and that nobody had been prosecuted in at least 15 years.[11] In the lead-up to the 2016 census, there was a push from atheists warning not to use Jedi, imploring that it could be counted as being religious.[12]

Canada [ edit ]

In the 2001 census, 21,000 Canadians put down their religion as Jedi Knight. This fact was referenced by the prime minister's office as a rationale for making the 40-page long census form voluntary.[13] In the 2011 National Household Survey the number fell to 9,000.[14]

Croatia [ edit ]

In the 2011 census, 303 Croats put Jedi as their religion.[15]

Czech Republic [ edit ]

The 2011 census preliminarily recorded 15,070 people answering the voluntary question on religion as belonging to the Jedi religion, described by the Czech Statistics Office as "the moral values of the Jedi knights". The office noted that this is an international phenomenon. As the 2011 census form did not list religions, these having to be filled out, the total number of Jedi is not artificially boosted by those who were not aware of the phenomenon prior to filling out the census form. On the other hand, many people encouraged others in discussions and then media to fill the Jedi religion prior 2011 census (as a form of protest against range, overall cost and obligatory filling of the census), which is probably the cause.[16] The highest number of Jedi were recorded to live in Prague.[17]

Ireland [ edit ]

In a May 2012 review of the 2011 census, the Dáil Public Accounts Committee asked the Central Statistics Office about the reliability of self-reported answers, instancing people listing Jedi as their religion. The response was "We could probably tell you the number of people who have declared themselves as such, but we don't publish it".[18][19][20] The 2016 census results list all religions receiving more than 30 responses, including 2,050 under "Jedi Knight".[21][22]

Montenegro [ edit ]

In the 2011 census in Montenegro, a group of young men declared themselves as "Jedi" on the ethnicity question, as they believe that ethnicity should not be an issue today.[23]

New Zealand [ edit ]

Over 53,000 people listed themselves as Jedi in New Zealand's 2001 census. New Zealand had the highest per capita population of reported Jedi in the world that year, with 1.5% marking "Jedi" as their religion. The city of Dunedin had the highest population of reported Jedi per capita.[24] Statistics New Zealand treated Jedi responses as "Answer understood, but will not be counted". The percentages of religious affiliations were:

There was a fall in the number of New Zealand Jedi five years later, with some 20,000 people giving this as their religion in the 2006 census. It is unknown whether the numbers have continued to fall as the 2011 census was not completed due to an earthquake in Christchurch.[25]

Serbia [ edit ]

In 2012, it was reported that 640 Serbs had identified as Jedi.[26]

England and Wales [ edit ]

In England and Wales 390,127 people (almost 0.8%) stated their religion as Jedi on their 2001 Census forms, surpassing Sikhism, Judaism, and Buddhism, and making it the fourth largest reported religion in the country.[27] In the 2001 Census, 2.6% of the population of Brighton claimed to be Jedi. The percentages of religious affiliations were:

It was confirmed prior to the census that citizens were not liable for a fine in relation to question 10 (on religion).[28] This was based on section 1(2) of the Census (Amendment) Act 2000,[29] which amended section 8 of the Census Act 2000 to state that "no person shall be liable to a penalty under subsection (1) for refusing or neglecting to state any particulars in respect of religion". The change in the law was implemented by The Census (Amendment) Order 2000[30] and The Census (Amendment) Regulations 2000.[31]

Jedi was assigned its own code in the United Kingdom for census processing, the number 896.[32] Officials from the Office for National Statistics pointed out that this merely means that it has been registered as a common answer to the "religion" question and that this does not confer on it the status of official recognition. John Pullinger, Director of Reporting and Analysis for the Census, noted that many people who would otherwise not have completed a Census form did so solely to record themselves as Jedi, so this joke helped to improve the quality of the Census. The Office for National Statistics revealed the total figure in a press release entitled "390,000 Jedi there are".[33]

In June 2005, Jamie Reed, newly elected Labour Member of Parliament for Copeland in Cumbria, declared himself to be the first Jedi Member of Parliament during his maiden speech.[34] The statement, made in the context of an ongoing debate regarding the Incitement to Religious Hatred Bill, was confirmed by Reed's office to be a joke instead of a serious statement of faith. During a subsequent committee debate on the bill, the Conservative Member of Parliament for Beaconsfield, Dominic Grieve, proposed as "a bit of a joke" to exclude Jedi Knights from the protection of the proposed act, along with Satanists and proponents of animal sacrifice, illustrating the difficulty of defining religious belief in legislation.[35] Similarly, in April 2006, Edward Leigh, the Conservative Member of Parliament for Gainsborough, asked whether he would be allowed to set up a Jedi knights faith school during a Committee debate on the Education and Inspections Bill.[36]

On 16 November 2006, two Jedi delivered a protest letter to UN officials in recognition of the International Day for Tolerance. The letter, written by Simon Cohen of the Global Tolerance public relations agency,[37] requested that it be renamed the "UN Interstellar Day of Tolerance" and cited the 2001 Census showing 390,000 Jedi in England and Wales.[38]

According to 2011 census figures, the number of Jedi had fallen to 176,632, placing it in seventh place, having been overtaken by Judaism and Buddhism, but still comfortably outnumbering any other alternative or mock religions.[39] The magazine Metal Hammer also encouraged readers to mark "Heavy Metal" as their religion, leading to over 6,000 responses.[40]

Scotland [ edit ]

In Scotland, 14,052 people stated that Jedi was their current religion (14,014 "Jedi", 24 "Jedi Order" and 14 "Sith") and 2,733 stated that it was their religion of upbringing (2,682 "Jedi", 36 "Jedi Order" and 15 "The Dark Side") in the 2001 census.[41] The proportion of people stating their religion as Jedi in Scotland was lower than that in England and Wales, at 0.277%.[42]

In April 2009, it became known that eight police officers serving with Scotland's largest police force, Strathclyde, listed their official religion as Jedi in voluntary diversity forms. The details were obtained in a Freedom of Information request by Jane's Police Review.[43]

Turkey [ edit ]

On April 6, 2015, thousands of Turkish students raised their voices in campaigns to build Jedi and Buddhist temples at their universities, after a series of mosques were constructed on their campuses by rectors who stressed “huge demand.”[44] A number of Dokuz Eylül University students in the western province of Izmir have demanded a Jedi temple to be built on their campus.[45] "There are less and less Jedi left on the Earth... the nearest temple [is] billions of light years away," the petition says. It adds that "uneducated Padawan" are moving to the dark side... To recruit new Jedi and to bring balance to the Force, we want a Jedi temple,” said the petition that received more than 6,000 signatures on change.org, referring to the famed knights of the fictional Star Wars universe.[46] The page on Change.org also features a still of Jedi Grand Master Yoda from Star Wars: Episode II -- Attack of the Clones teaching young Jedi how to use a light saber. The petition was started by Akin Cagatay Caliskan, an 18-year-old computer science student from Ankara: "We want freedom of worship. There are mosques everywhere, but no Jedi temple!" Caliskan says he is surprised by the impact his petition has made: "I did not expect so many supporters. I thought maybe it might (have) 100."[44][47][48][49][50]

Criticism [ edit ]

The Australian Atheist Foundation objects to non-religious individuals answering with any joke answer, because this would lead to a census undercount of non-religious people, and lessen their political influence.[51]

See also [ edit ]

#1#The "never Trump" movement was actually championed by a certain group of conservatives, not Hillary's campaign.#1# 
 https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_Trump_movement 



https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_Trump_movement
STOP TRUMP MOVEMENT

#1#The Stop Trump movement, also called the anti-Trump, Dump Trump, or Never Trump movement,[1] was the informal name for the effort on the part of some Republicans and other prominent conservatives to prevent front-runner and now President of the United States Donald Trump from obtaining the Republican Party presidential nomination, and, following his nomination, the presidency, for the 2016 United States presidential election.#1# Although Trump's campaign drew a substantial amount of criticism, he was ultimately elected in November 2016 and sworn in as president on January 20, 2017.

The movement gained momentum following Trump's wins in the March 15, 2016, Super Tuesday primaries, including his victory over U.S. Senator Marco Rubio in Florida.[2][3][4][5] After U.S. Senator Ted Cruz dropped out of the race following Trump's primary victory in Indiana on May 3, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee, while internal opposition to Trump remained as the process pivoted towards a general election.[6]

Following unsuccessful attempts by some delegates at the Republican National Convention to block his nomination, Trump became the Republican Party's 2016 nominee for President of the United States on July 18, 2016. Some members of the Stop Trump movement endorsed alternative candidates in the general election, such as Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, independent conservative Evan McMullin, and American Solidarity Party nominee Mike Maturen.[7][8]

These efforts ultimately failed when Trump won the general election on November 8. Trump received 90% of the GOP vote, while Clinton won 89% of Democratic voters.[9]

Trump entered the Republican primaries on June 16, 2015, at a time when Governors Jeb Bush and Scott Walker and Senator Marco Rubio were viewed as the early frontrunners.[10] Trump was generally considered a longshot to win the nomination, but his large media profile gave him a chance to spread his message and appear in the Republican debates.[11][12] By the end of 2015, Trump was leading the Republican field in national polls.[13] Despite Trump's enduring strength in the polls, his rivals continued to attack each other rather than Trump.[14] In this atmosphere, some Republicans, such as former Mitt Romney adviser Alex Castellanos, called for a "negative ad blitz" against Trump,[14] and another former Romney aide founded Our Principles PAC to attack Trump.[15] After Trump won the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries, many Republican leaders called for the party to unite around a single leader to stop Trump's nomination.[16]
Erickson meeting Edit

Efforts Edit

On March 17, 2016, notable conservatives under the leadership of Erick Erickson met at the Army and Navy Club in Washington D.C. to discuss strategies for preventing Trump from securing the presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention in July. Among the strategies discussed were a "unity ticket",[17] a possible third-party candidate and a contested convention, especially if Trump did not gain the 1,237 delegates necessary to secure the nomination.[18]

The meeting was organized by Erick Erickson, Bill Wichterman, and Bob Fischer. Around two dozen people attended.[19][20] Consensus was reached that Trump's nomination could be prevented, and that efforts would be made to seek a unity ticket, possibly comprising U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich.[19]

General election opposition Edit

By political organizations	Edit
Our Principles PAC and Club for Growth were involved in trying to prevent Trump's nomination. Our Principles PAC spent more than $13 million on advertising attacking Trump.[21][22] The Club for Growth spent $11 million in an effort to prevent Trump from becoming the Republican Party's nominee.[23]

By Republican delegates	Edit
In June 2016, activists Eric O'Keefe and Dane Waters formed a group called Delegates Unbound, which CNN described as "an effort to convince delegates that they have the authority and the ability to vote for whomever they want."[24][25][26] The effort involved the publication of a book, Unbound: The Conscience of a Republican Delegate by Republican delegates Curly Haugland and Sean Parnell. The book argues that "delegates are not bound to vote for any particular candidate based on primary and caucus results, state party rules, or even state law."[27][28]

Republican delegates Kendal Unruh and Steve Lonegan led an Free the Delegates effort among fellow Republican delegates to change the convention rules "to include a 'conscience clause' that would allow delegates bound to Trump to vote against him, even on the first ballot at the July convention."[29] Unruh described the effort as "an 'Anybody but Trump' movement". According to The Washington Post, Unruh's efforts started with a conference call on June 16 "with at least 30 delegates from 15 states". Regional coordinators for the effort were recruited in Arizona, Iowa, Louisiana, Washington and other states.[30] By June 19, hundreds of delegates to the Republican National Convention calling themselves Free the Delegates had begun raising funds and recruiting members in support of an effort to change Party convention rules to free delegates to vote however they want – instead of according to the results of state caucuses and primaries.[31] Unruh, a member of the convention's Rules Committee and one of the group's founders, planned to propose adding the "conscience clause" to the convention's rules effectively unhinging pledged delegates. She needed 56 other supporters from the 112-member panel, which determines precisely how Republicans select their nominee in Cleveland.[32] However, the Rules Committee voted down, by a vote of 84–21, a move to send a "minority report" to the floor allowing the unbinding of delegates, thereby defeating the "Stop Trump" activists and guaranteeing Trump's nomination. The committee then endorsed the opposite option, voting 87–12 to include rules language specifically stating that delegates were required to vote based on their states' primary and caucus results.[33]

By individuals

At a luncheon in February 2016 attended by Republican governors and donors, Karl Rove discussed the danger of Trump securing the Republican nomination in July, and that it may be possible to stop him, but that there was not much time left.[34][35]

Early in March 2016, Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, directed some of his advisors to look at ways to stop Trump from obtaining the nomination at the Republican National Convention (RNC). Romney also spoke publicly urging voters to vote for the Republican candidate most likely to prevent Trump from acquiring delegates in state primaries.[36] A few weeks later, Romney announced that he would vote for Ted Cruz in the Utah GOP caucuses. On his Facebook page, he posted "Today, there is a contest between Trumpism and Republicanism. Through the calculated statements of its leader, Trumpism has become associated with racism, misogyny, bigotry, xenophobia, vulgarity and, most recently, threats and violence. I am repulsed by each and every one of these."[37][38][39] Nevertheless, Romney said early on he would "support the Republican nominee," though he didn’t "think that's going to be Donald Trump."[40]

U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham shifted from opposing both Ted Cruz and Donald Trump, to eventually supporting Cruz as a better alternative to Trump. Commenting about Trump, Graham said "I don't think he's a Republican, I don't think he's a conservative, I think his campaign's built on xenophobia, race-baiting and religious bigotry. I think he'd be a disaster for our party and as Senator Cruz would not be my first choice, I think he is a Republican conservative who I could support."[41][42] In May, after Trump became the presumptive nominee, Graham announced he would not be supporting Trump in the general election, stating "[I] cannot, in good conscience, support Donald Trump because I do not believe he is a reliable Republican conservative nor has he displayed the judgment and temperament to serve as Commander in Chief."[43]

In October 2016, some individuals made third-party vote trading mobile applications and websites to help stop Trump; for example a Californian that wants to vote for Clinton will instead vote for Jill Stein, and in exchange a Stein supporter in a swing state will vote for Clinton.[44] The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in the 2007 case Porter v. Bowen established vote trading as a First Amendment right.

Former Republican Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush both refused to support Trump in the general election.[45][46]

General election opposition

Trump was widely described as the presumptive Republican nominee after the May 3 Indiana primary,[6] notwithstanding the continued opposition of groups such as Our Principles PAC.[47] Many GOP leaders endorsed Trump after he became the presumptive nominee, but other Republicans looked for ways to defeat him in the general election.[48] Stop Trump members such as Mitt Romney, Eric Erickson, William Kristol, Mike Murphy, Stuart Stevens, and Rick Wilson pursued the possibility of an independent candidacy by a non-Trump Republican.[48] Potential candidates included Senator Ben Sasse, Governor John Kasich, Senator Tom Coburn, Congressman Justin Amash, Senator Rand Paul, retired Marine Corps General James Mattis, retired Army General Stanley McChrystal, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, businessman Mark Cuban, and 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney.[48][49] However, many of these candidates rejected the possibility of an independent run, pointing to difficulties such as ballot access and the potential to help the Democratic candidate win the presidency.[48] One potential strategy would involve an independent candidate gaining enough electoral votes to deny a majority to either of the major party candidates, sending the three presidential candidates with the most electoral votes to the U.S. House of Representatives under procedures established by the Twelfth Amendment.[50][51] Some anti-Trump Republicans stated that they would vote for Hillary Clinton in the general election.[52]

On May 3, 2016, one of the biggest anti-Trump groups, the "Never Trump PAC", circulated a petition to collect the signatures of conservatives opposed to voting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.[53][54] As of August 19, 2016, over 54,000 people had signed the petition.[55] Gary Johnson's campaign in the Libertarian Party attracted attention as a possible vehicle for the Stop Trump movement's votes in the general election after Trump became the Republican Party's presumptive nominee.[56][57][58] In late May, Craig Snyder, a former Republican staffer, launched the "Republicans For Hillary PAC", "aimed at convincing Republicans to choose Hillary Clinton over [...] Donald Trump in November."[59] Also, the grassroots effort, called "Republicans for Clinton in 2016", or R4C16, joined the effort in defeating Trump.[60]

William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, promoted National Review staff writer David A. French of Tennessee as a prospective candidate.[61][62][63] French opted not to run.[64][65] On August 8, Evan McMullin, a conservative Republican, announced that he would mount an independent bid for president, with support of the Never Trump movement.[66] McMullin was backed by Better for America, a Never Trump group,[67] and was supported by former Americans Elect CEO Kahlil Byrd and Republican campaign-finance lawyer Chris Ashby.[66]

Reactions Edit

Reactions to the Stop Trump movement were mixed, with other prominent Republicans making statements in support of preventing Trump from receiving the Republican nomination. Following his withdrawal as a candidate for President, U.S. Senator Marco Rubio expressed hope that Trump's nomination could be stopped, adding that his nomination "would fracture the party and be damaging to the conservative movement."[68]

Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus dismissed the potential impact of Mitt Romney's efforts to block Trump at the convention.[36] Sam Clovis, a national co-chairman for Trump's campaign, said that he would leave the Republican Party if it "comes into that convention and jimmies with the rules and takes away the will of the people".[41] Ned Ryun, founder of conservative group American Majority, expressed concern about a contested convention, should Trump have the most delegates, but fail to reach the 1,237 necessary to be assured the nomination. Ryun speculated that a contested convention would result in Trump running as a third-party candidate, making it unlikely that Republicans would win the presidency in the November general election, adding that it would "blow up the party, at least in the short term".[69][70]

New Jersey Governor Chris Christie expressed his opinion that the efforts to stop Trump will ultimately fail. Relatively shortly after his endorsement of Trump, he criticized the people who condemned his endorsement, including the Stop Trump movement, stating that his critics had yet to support any of the remaining GOP candidates. He said, "I think if you're a public figure, you have the obligation to speak out, and be 'for' something, not just 'against' something. ... When those folks in the 'Stop Trump' movement actually decide to be for something, then people can make an evaluation ... if they want to be for one of the remaining candidates, do what I did: Be for one of the remaining candidates."[71]

Trump said that if he were deprived of the nomination because of falling just short of the 1,237 delegates required, that there could be "problems like you've never seen before. I think bad things would happen" and "I think you’d have riots."[5][72][73] Trump made prior comments suggesting that he might run as an independent candidate if he were not to get the Republican nomination.[36]

Roger Stone, a political consultant who served as an advisor for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, and who remains a "confidant" to Trump,[74][75] put together a group called "Stop the Steal" and threatened "Days of Rage" if Republican party leaders try to deny the nomination to Trump at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.[76][77] Stone also threatened to disclose to the public the hotel room numbers of delegates who oppose Trump.[77]

Developments following the election Edit

After Trump won the election, two Electoral College electors launched an effort to convince fellow electors who are allocated to Trump not to vote for him.[78] On December 11, Jim Himes, a member of the House of Representatives, wrote on Twitter that the Electoral College should not elect Trump. "We're 5 wks from Inauguration & the President Elect is completely unhinged. The Electoral College must do what it was designed for."[79] On December 12, in an interview on CNN's New Day, Himes said that he was troubled by several actions by the president-elect. The issue that "pushed me over the edge" was Trump's criticism of the CIA and the intelligence community. The Congressman did admit that Trump won "fair and square," but he said that Trump proved himself unfit for public office. He cited the intentions behind the creation of the electoral college and he argued that it was created for an instance such as the election of Trump.[80] In the end, efforts to persuade more electors to vote against Trump ultimately failed, and Trump won 304 electors on December 19. Trump's electoral lead over Clinton even grew because a larger number of electors defected from her: Trump received 304 of his 306 pledged electors, Clinton 227 of her 232.[81] Jonah Goldberg, in an article titled Never Trump Nevermore, stated: "I’m going to call ’em like I see ’em and wait and see if I was wrong about Trump... The thing is: Never Trump is over. Never Trump was about the GOP primary and the general election, not the presidency. The Left wants to claim it must be a permanent movement, denying the legitimacy of Trump’s election forever, or we were never serious. Well, that’s not what we — or at least I — signed up for. ...I’ll say it again: I’m going to call ’em like I see ’em and wait and see if I was wrong about Trump. So far, I’ve said that most of his cabinet picks have been a pleasant and welcome surprise. But he’s also done plenty of things that make me feel like I had him pegged all along. We only have one president at a time — and the guy isn’t even president yet. I’ll give him a chance. But I won’t lie for him either." [82]

See also Edit

http://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_56d47177e4b03260bf777e83

https://www.google.com/amp/amp.timeinc.net/fortune/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/%3fsource=dam

It's easy to find more. I mean come on, #1#America elected a man who is literally going to trial for Fraud and Child Rape in a month!#1#



https://www.google.com/amp/amp.timeinc.net/fortune/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/%3fsource=dam
REDIRECT NOTICE
The previous page is sending you to http://fortune.com/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/ If you do not want to visit that page, you can return to the previous page

You don't vote in a vacuum.

Often (as in this election) you are forced to chose between two evils: such as a candidate who may be sexist, racist and bigoted  and a candidate who is a corrupt-to-the core liar.

Picking option (1) does not make sexist, racist and bigoted, it just means that you see sexism / racism / bigotry as a lesser evil than unabashed political corruption.  

Tl/DR: #1#Picking between a giant douche and a turd sandwich - does not make either a douche or a turd.#1#

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0BuPgrBwHU 



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0BuPgrBwHU
#1#SOUTH PARK GIANT DOUCHE VS TURD SANDWICH#1#
The interactive transcript could not be loaded.

Rating is available when the video has been rented.

This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.

I agree with the gist of what you're saying, but #1#I don't think Clinton's "deplorables" comments are *that* bad, when taken in the full context.#1#

>"You know, to just be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right? The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic -- you name it. And unfortunately there are people like that. And he has lifted them up. He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people -- now 11 million. He tweets and retweets their offensive hateful mean-spirited rhetoric. Now, some of those folks -- they are irredeemable, but thankfully they are not America."

>"But the other basket -- and I know this because I see friends from all over America here -- I see friends from Florida and Georgia and South Carolina and Texas -- as well as, you know, New York and California -- but that other basket of people are people who feel that the government has let them down, the economy has let them down, nobody cares about them, nobody worries about what happens to their lives and their futures, and they're just desperate for change. It doesn't really even matter where it comes from. They don't buy everything he says, but he seems to hold out some hope that their lives will be different. They won't wake up and see their jobs disappear, lose a kid to heroin, feel like they're in a dead-end. Those are people we have to understand and empathize with as well."

http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/09/politics/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-basket-of-deplorables/



http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/09/politics/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-basket-of-deplorables/
CLINTON EXPRESSES REGRET FOR SAYING 'HALF' OF TRUMP SUPPORTERS ARE 'DEPLORABLES'
New York (CNN) #1#Hillary Clinton expressed "regret" Saturday for comments in which she said "half" of Donald Trump's supporters are "deplorables," meaning people who are racist, sexist, homophobic or xenophobic.#1#

"Last night I was 'grossly generalistic,' and that's never a good idea. I regret saying 'half' -- that was wrong," Clinton said in a statement in which she also vowed to call out "bigotry" in Trump's campaign.

The Democratic presidential nominee sparked an uproar late Friday when she described Trump's supporters at a fundraiser.

"To just be grossly generalistic, you can put half of Trump supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables," Clinton said. "Right? Racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic, you name it."

She added: "And unfortunately, there are people like that and he has lifted them up. He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people, now have 11 million. He tweets and retweets offensive, hateful, mean-spirited rhetoric."

Clinton then said some of these people were "irredeemable" and "not America."

She described the rest of his supporters as people who are looking for change in any form because of economic anxiety and urged her supporters to empathize with them.

The Democratic presidential nominee made similar comments in an interview Thursday with an Israeli television station. But when they were widely reported Friday night, Trump and Republicans quickly pounced on the remarks, which drew comparisons to President Barack Obama's comments about clinging to "guns and religion" at a 2008 campaign fundraiser and Mitt Romney's "47 percent" remark in 2012.

"Isn't it disgraceful that Hillary Clinton makes the worst mistake of the political season and instead of owning up to this grotesque attack on American voters, she tries to turn it around with a pathetic rehash of the words and insults used in her failing campaign?" Trump said in a statement. "For the first time in a long while, her true feelings came out, showing bigotry and hatred for millions of Americans."

Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, forcefully condemned Clinton "in the strongest possible terms" Saturday at the Values Voter Summit in Washington.

"The truth of the matter is that the men and women who support Donald Trump's campaign are hard-working Americans, farmers, coal miners, teachers, veterans, members of our law enforcement community, members of every class of this country, who know that we can make America great again," Pence said.

"Let me just say, from the bottom of my heart, Hillary, they are not a basket of anything," Pence continued. "They are Americans and they deserve your respect."

JUST WATCHED Pence: Trump backers not 'basket of anything' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pence: Trump backers not 'basket of anything' 02:10

Clinton had earlier divided Trump's supporters into "two big baskets," what she called "the deplorables," in an interview with Channel 2 News Israel that aired Thursday.

"If I were to be grossly generalistic, I would say you can take Trump supporters and put them in two big baskets," Clinton said. "There are what I call the deplorables -- the racists, you know, the haters, and the people who are drawn because they think somehow he's going to restore an America that no longer exists. So just eliminate them from your thinking, because we've always had an annoying prejudicial element within our politics."

Clinton made the comments before introducing Barbra Streisand at an LGBT fundraiser in downtown New York.

According to average ticket prices and attendance figures provided by the campaign, Clinton raised around $6 million at the fundraiser, at which some attendees paid $50,000.

In seizing upon the comments, Trump used the opportunity to do some fundraising as well.

"Now is the time to show Hillary the consequences of her words," Trump's campaign wrote in an appeal to supporters. "I'm asking you and the millions of hard-working, patriotic Americans whom she just insulted, to fight back with a contribution of $100, $65, $50, $35, $25, $15, or even $5 to elect Donald Trump to the White House."

Clinton expresses regret

In her statement Saturday, Clinton was emphatic in condemning what she said was Trump's racially insensitive campaign.

She listed a series of controversial moments from Trump's campaign, including his fight with a Muslim Gold Star family, criticism of a federal US judge of Mexican heritage and his insinuation that Obama wasn't born in the US.

"I won't stop calling out bigotry and racist rhetoric in this campaign," Clinton said.

She also noted her comments about empathizing with other Trump supporters.

"As I said, many of Trump's supporters are hard-working Americans who just don't feel like the economy or our political system are working for them," Clinton said. "I'm determined to bring our country together and make our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top. Because we really are 'stronger together.'"

Around the same time Clinton issued her statement, Trump also made a case for unity.

"While Hillary said horrible things about my supporters, and while many of her supporters will never vote for me, I still respect them all!" Trump said on Twitter.

While Hillary said horrible things about my supporters, and while many of her supporters will never vote for me, I still respect them all! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2016

A senior Democrat close to the campaign told CNN it wants to have a conversation about what it sees as the racism in Trump's campaign, but could not have that part of the conversation until Clinton backed away from the "half" comment.

The Democrat added that Clinton's concession drew a contrast with Trump.

"She can admit when she is wrong -- Trump never does," the Democrat said.

'Prejudice and paranoia'

Clinton's comments amounted to startlingly blunt talk for a candidate who is usually measured in her assessment of the Republican nominee.

Although Clinton has accused Trump of racism before, she has never explicitly called him a racist. Last month , she delivered a major speech in which she accused Trump of aligning himself with far-right extremists and saying he "built his campaign on prejudice and paranoia."

"He's taking hate groups mainstream and helping a radical fringe take over the Republican Party," Clinton said in Reno, Nevada. "His disregard for the values that make our country great is profoundly dangerous."

Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Clinton's campaign, cited the speech in attempting to clarify the Democratic nominee's comments Friday night.

"Obviously not everyone supporting Trump is part of the alt right, but alt right leaders are with Trump," Merrill tweeted adding , "And their supporters appear to make up half his crowd when you observe the tone of his events."

Clinton's campaign was continuing to dig in Saturday morning as outrage swirled over the comment, though surrogates were emphasizing that Clinton was talking about Trump's supporters -- people who attend his rallies -- and not Trump voters, a larger group, in the eyes of the campaign, that includes more moderate Republicans.

Vice presidential nominee Tim Kaine told The Washington Post that Clinton's statement didn't require an apology.

"She said, 'Look, I'm generalizing here, but a lot of his support is coming from this odd place, that he's given a platform to the alt-right and white nationalists,'" Kaine told the newspaper. "But then she went on to say, 'Look, there's also a number of his supporters that have economic anxieties, and we've got to speak to those.'"

Added Kaine: "There are supporters we're not going to get."

Tyrone Gale, a Clinton spokesman, rejected Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway's call on Twitter for an apology by tweeting a New York Times video depicting vulgar and obscene comments made by some Trump supporters at his rallies.

And Bakari Sellers, a Clinton surrogate and CNN contributor, was defiant when asked about the remark.

"This election is about beating back bigotry and hate," Sellers said in an interview. "Whether it's 10% or 50%, Donald Trump and his supporters have elevated it. If you're not a bigot, her comments shouldn't offend you."

The Clinton campaign directed surrogates on Saturday night to push the press if asked about the "basket of deplorables" comment, according to a talking points obtained by CNN.

"I think we can all agree that if Donald Trump said something controversial about Clinton supporters, it wouldn't have been in his top 10 list of offensive statements in a day. It's well past time the press stopped grading Trump on a curve," the talking points said. "So is the press going to cover this story in the right contact, or are they going to hold Hillary to a different standard again?"

#BasketofDeplorables

The controversy recalled rhetorical stumbles in previous campaigns. In 2008, Obama told an audience at a closed fundraiser that decades of lost jobs and unfulfilled promises from Washington had left some Pennsylvanians "bitter" and clinging "to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations."

He later acknowledged that the comment was "boneheaded."

And late in the 2012 campaign, Romney, the GOP nominee, was memorably caught in a secretly recorded video telling donors that "there are 47 percent of the people who will vote for the President no matter what," saying they "believe they are victims, who believe that government has the responsibility to care for them. Who believe that they are entitled to health care, to food, to housing."

Romney later told reporters the comments were "not elegantly stated."

Trump himself invoked the gaffe to slam Clinton Saturday night, also retweeting Obama's remark four years ago that "We need a President who is fighting for all Americans, not one who writes off nearly half the country."

What separates Obama and Romney's comments from Clinton's, however, is that they believed their remarks were private. Clinton's event on Friday was only the sixth out of the more than 330 fundraisers she's attended as a candidate that was open to the press.

Almost immediately, "#BasketofDeplorables" began trending on Twitter, and conservatives and Trump supporters were predictably outraged.

"The truly deplorable thing in this race is the shameful level of condescension & disrespect @HillaryClinton's showing to her fellow citizens," Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said on Twitter.

The truly deplorable thing in this race is the shameful level of condescension & disrespect @HillaryClinton's showing to her fellow citizens — Reince Priebus (@Reince) September 10, 2016

Conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt suggested Trump open each speech by asking his crowds, "So, which half of you are in the #basketofdeplorables?"

4 @realDonaldTrump: Every speech should start "So, which half of you are in the #basketofdeplorables?" In every TV hit you should reference. — Hugh Hewitt (@hughhewitt) September 10, 2016

Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol, a notable Trump critic, tweeted, "Hillary Clinton's creed: 'All men are created equal' -- except for those I've consigned to the basket of deplorables, who are irredeemable."

Hillary Clinton's creed: "All men are created equal" -- except for those I've consigned to the basket of deplorables, who are irredeemable. — Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) September 10, 2016

Even some Democrats noted the political opportunity Clinton had given Republicans.

"'Basket of deplorables' reminds me of 'binders full of women.' Equally tone deaf statements divorced from reality," tweeted Lis Smith, Obama's director of rapid response during his 2012 campaign.

"Basket of deplorables" reminds me of "binders full of women." Equally tone deaf statements divorced from reality. https://t.co/Nc1nPPAcUK — Lis Smith (@Lis_Smith) September 10, 2016

David Axelrod, a former chief strategist to Obama who is now a CNN commentator, referenced the controversy over Obama's "guns and religion" line at a 2008 fundraiser, tweeting, "Fundraiser remarks are treacherous things."

Fundraiser remarks are treacherous things. https://t.co/BF87ArNIwM — David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) September 10, 2016

Speaking to CNN's Michael Smerconish Saturday morning, Bob Beckel, who managed Walter Mondale's 1984 presidential campaign, offered no defense of Clinton.

"It's the wrong thing to say," Beckel said.

Right. However, I think the more important take away is that the personal imperative to vote for a person is going to be different for every person.  As a very strict and arbitrary example: 

If you think Gays not being able to get married is a 10/10 on your personal "Oh shit" meter, you are going to prioritize that thusly when you select your candidate.

If I on the other hand Prioritize a candidate who is going to help people find work and the unemployment rate is a 10/10 on my "Oh Shit" Meter I am going to vote for that person.


We both want gay people to get married, It's just lower on my personal pecking order. We both also probably want older people to be able to fend for themselves before retirement. Does that make me a homophobe? Does that mean you hate the older working class who are socially immobile and set in their ways? Does it mean I want to hinder homosexuals? etc. Why are a specific portion of the population's rights more important than the economic prosperity of the entire country? I value their right to get married, but even if we help them we are only helping a specific percentage of people.

People are allowed to vote for their interests, and that's not an evil thing to do. It's when their interests are terrible that is an issue. But the people are not Donald Trump and Donald Trump's specific values that are exclusive to him do not represent the people who voted for them, who also have their own sets of specific values.

But let's set this argument aside. You're committing a fallacy. #1#[Reductio ad Hitlerum]#1#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductio_ad_Hitlerum) It's specifically about Hitler, but the actual fallacy part is the important piece. If I draw breath, and Hitler Drew breath, does that make me as bad as Hitler? If I share some of Donald Trumps qualities, does that make me as bad as Donald Trump? Obviously not.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductio_ad_Hitlerum
REDUCTIO AD HITLERUM
#1#Reductio ad Hitlerum (pseudo-Latin for "reduction to Hitler"; sometimes argumentum ad Hitlerum, "argument to Hitler", ad Nazium, "to Nazism"), or playing the Nazi card, is an attempt to invalidate someone else's position on the basis that the same view was held by Adolf Hitler or the Nazi Party#1#,[1] for example: "Hitler was against tobacco smoking, X is against tobacco smoking, therefore X is a Nazi".

Coined by Leo Strauss in 1951, reductio ad Hitlerum borrows its name from the term used in logic, reductio ad absurdum (reduction to the absurd).[1] According to Strauss, reductio ad Hitlerum is a form of ad hominem, ad misericordiam, or a fallacy of irrelevance. The suggested rationale is one of guilt by association. It is a tactic often used to derail arguments, because such comparisons tend to distract and anger the opponent, as Hitler and Nazism have been condemned in the modern world.[2]

Fallacious nature [ edit ]

Reductio ad Hitlerum is a form of association fallacy.[2][3] The argument is that a policy leads to – or is the same as – one advocated or implemented by Adolf Hitler or the Third Reich and so "proves" that the original policy is undesirable.

Another instance of reductio ad Hitlerum is asking a question of the form "You know who else...?" with the deliberate intent of impugning a certain idea or action by implying Hitler held that idea or performed such action.[4]

An invocation of Hitler or Nazism is not a reductio ad Hitlerum when it illuminates the argument instead of causing distraction from it.[5]

History [ edit ]

The phrase reductio ad Hitlerum is first known to have been used in an article written by University of Chicago professor Leo Strauss for Measure: A Critical Journal in spring 1951;[6] it was made famous in a book by the same author published in 1953[1] Natural Right and History, Chapter II:

In following this movement towards its end we shall inevitably reach a point beyond which the scene is darkened by the shadow of Hitler. Unfortunately, it does not go without saying that in our examination we must avoid the fallacy that in the last decades has frequently been used as a substitute for the reductio ad absurdum: the reductio ad Hitlerum. A view is not refuted by the fact that it happens to have been shared by Hitler.

The phrase was derived from the legitimate logical argument called reductio ad absurdum. The argumentum variant takes its form from the names of many classic fallacies, such as argumentum ad hominem. The ad Nazium variant may be further derived, humorously, from argumentum ad nauseam.

In 2000 traditionalist Catholic[citation needed] Thomas Fleming described its use against traditional values:

Leo Strauss called it the reductio ad Hitlerum. If Hitler liked neoclassical art, that means that classicism in every form is Nazi; if Hitler wanted to strengthen the German family, that makes the traditional family (and its defenders) Nazi; if Hitler spoke of the "nation" or the "folk", then any invocation of nationality, ethnicity, or even folkishness is Nazi ...[7]

Limits to classification as a fallacy [ edit ]

It has been argued by some historians studying the Holocaust that not all comparisons to Hitler and Nazism are always logical fallacies since if they all were, there would be nothing to learn from the events that led to the Holocaust. That would undermine the entire significance of studying the Holocaust to avoid future genocides.[8][9]

Proponents of this point do make distinctions between many different categories of comparison(s) to Hitler, some of which are fallacies, some of which are not, and some of which may or may not be fallacies. This approach is also critical to strict refusal to acknowledge similarities to the Holocaust, since there were early stages leading up to it and policies today can be comparable to those without being comparable to the "final solution". Advocates of this approach argue that such early stages are those where something can really be done about it, before it is too late.[10] Categories include:

Similarities that are not in any way related to political or institutional decision making, e.g. going on walks or wearing expensive clothes. These are invariably fallacies when used as arguments.

Similarities that are related to politics, in the absence of centralized power. This example usually refers to political party and movements still struggling to gain power. These similarities can only be to early stages of Nazism, not to a full-blown organized genocide. These comparisons may or may not be fallacies: a detailed analysis of methods, decision-making and ideology is necessary to determine that.

Pointing out that Hitler did some things that are often considered to be related to being good in the context of criticizing psychological assumptions of them being connected, without implying that anyone doing them are like Hitler in other ways. E.g. that Hitler's engagement for animal protection shows that treatment of animals is divorced from treatment of humans, not implying a negative connection but mere non-connection. This is not an example of the fallacy, though not directly related to the study of organized genocide either.

Pointing out that the Nazis believed in some things that are often thought to be protection from persecution within the context of rejecting assumptions about connections between concepts and tolerance. For example that the Nazis believed homosexuality to be innate and far from tolerating it extended their homophobia to relatives as well, just to show that ideas on origin of a behavior (in this case homosexuality, but also applicable to other things) is unrelated to tolerance of said behavior and not implying that an idea is Nazi-like. This is not a fallacy. It does not show what should be done to prevent repetition, but it narrows it down by eliminating irrelevancies.

Pointing out similarities between the Nazi chain of command and modern chain of command as a risk factor for genocide shared between Nazi and modern society in general without applying it to individuals specifically, e.g. that administrative and military laws are significant risk factors. It does not imply advocacy of a repetition of the Nuremberg trials to those who only follow orders/obey laws, partly since referring to that trial as a source of authority would promote the death penalty exactly as much as "superior orders is no defense" and partly since forcing individual executioners into a damned if you do and damned if you don't situation is ineffective for preventing organized genocides like the Holocaust. Instead, it is criticism of structures and laws that lead to dangerous officiousness. This is not a fallacy. It is relevant for genocide studies.[10]

Antecedents [ edit ]

Although named for and formalized around Hitler, the logical fallacy existed prior to the Second World War. There were other individuals from history who were used as stand-ins for pure evil.[11] In the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries the Pharaoh of the Book of Exodus was commonly seen as the most villainous person in history.[11] In the years prior to the Civil War, abolitionists referred to slaveholders as modern-day Pharaohs. After VE Day, Pharaoh continued to appear in the speeches of social reformers like Martin Luther King Jr.[11] Judas Iscariot and Pontius Pilate were also commonly held up as pure evil. However, there was no universal Hitler-like person and different regions and times used different stand-ins.[11] In the years after the American Revolution, King George III was often vilified in the United States. Andrew Jackson was also called King Andrew the First. During the Civil War, some Southerners spoke of Lincoln in Hitler-like terms. Some Confederates even called Lincoln a "modern Pharaoh".[11]

Invocations [ edit ]

In 1991, Michael André Bernstein alleged reductio ad Hitlerum over a full-page advertisement placed in The New York Times by the Lubavitch community, following the Crown Heights Riot, under the heading "This Year Kristallnacht Took Place on August 19th Right Here in Crown Heights." Henry Schwarzschild, who had witnessed Kristallnacht, wrote to the New York Times that "however ugly were the anti-Semitic slogans and the assaultive behavior of people in the streets [during the Crown Heights riots]... one thing that clearly did not take place was a Kristallnacht."[12]

American conservative radio and television host Glenn Beck is often criticized for his frequent use of reductio ad Hitlerum, including a controversial statement comparing the victims of the 2011 Norway attacks to members of the Hitler Youth.[13] Beck has also compared the National Endowment for the Arts to Joseph Goebbels[14] and ACORN to Hitler's "Brown Shirts".[15]

The American Conservative accused Jonah Goldberg's book Liberal Fascism of employing the reductio fallacy:

That Nazism and contemporary liberalism both promote healthy living is as meaningless a finding as that bloody marys and martinis may both be made with gin. Repeatedly, Goldberg fails to recognize a reductio ad absurdum. ... In no case does Goldberg uncover anything more ominous than a coincidence.[16]

See also [ edit ]

Note: This post may be offensive to religious, spiritualist, or superstitious people. Sorry, but these are my views. I'm open to having them changed but tempering them for this post would not be helpful. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permian%E2%80%93Triassic_extinction_event
PERMIAN–TRIASSIC EXTINCTION EVENT
Marine extinction intensity during the Phanerozoic % Millions of years ago (H) K–Pg Tr–J P–Tr Cap Late D O–S [1] Geological periods are annotated (by abbreviation and colour) above. #2#The Permian–Triassic extinction event is the most significant event for marine genera, with just over 50% (according to this source) failing to survive.#2# (source and image info) Plot of extinction intensity (percentage of marine genera that are present in each interval of time but do not exist in the following interval) vs time in the past.Geological periods are annotated (by abbreviation and colour) above. The Permian–Triassic extinction event is the most significant event for marine genera, with just over 50% (according to this source) failing to survive.

The Permian–Triassic (P–Tr or P–T) extinction event, colloquially known as the Great Dying,[2] the End-Permian Extinction or the Great Permian Extinction,[3][4] occurred about 252 Ma (million years) ago,[5] forming the boundary between the Permian and Triassic geologic periods, as well as the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras. It is the Earth's most severe known extinction event, with up to 96% of all marine species[6][7] and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species becoming extinct.[8] It is the only known mass extinction of insects.[9][10] Some 57% of all families and 83% of all genera became extinct. Because so much biodiversity was lost, the recovery of life on Earth took significantly longer than after any other extinction event,[6] possibly up to 10 million years.[11] Studies in Bear Lake County near Paris, Idaho showed a quick and dynamic rebound in a marine ecosystem, illustrating the remarkable resiliency of life.[12]

There is evidence for one to three distinct pulses, or phases, of extinction.[8][13][14][15] Suggested mechanisms for the latter include one or more large meteor impact events, massive volcanism such as that of the Siberian Traps, and the ensuing coal or gas fires and explosions,[16] and a runaway greenhouse effect triggered by sudden release of methane from the sea floor due to methane clathrate dissociation according to the clathrate gun hypothesis or methane-producing microbes known as methanogens.[17] Possible contributing gradual changes include sea-level change, increasing anoxia, increasing aridity, and a shift in ocean circulation driven by climate change.

Dating the extinction [ edit ]

Until 2000, it was thought that rock sequences spanning the Permian–Triassic boundary were too few and contained too many gaps for scientists to reliably determine its details.[21] However, it is now possible to date the extinction with millennial precision. U–Pb zircon dates from five volcanic ash beds from the Global Stratotype Section and Point for the Permian–Triassic boundary at Meishan, China, establish a high-resolution age model for the extinction – allowing exploration of the links between global environmental perturbation, carbon cycle disruption, mass extinction, and recovery at millennial timescales. The extinction occurred between 251.941 ± 0.037 and 251.880 ± 0.031 Ma, a duration of 60 ± 48 ka.[22] A large (approximately 0.9%), abrupt global decrease in the ratio of the stable isotope 13

C to that of 12

C, coincides with this extinction,[19][23][24][25][26] and is sometimes used to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating.[27] Further evidence for environmental change around the P–Tr boundary suggests an 8 °C (14 °F) rise in temperature,[19] and an increase in CO

2 levels by 6997200000000000000♠2000 ppm (for comparison, the concentration immediately before the industrial revolution was 6996279999999999999♠280 ppm.)[19] There is also evidence of increased ultraviolet radiation reaching the earth, causing the mutation of plant spores.[19]

It has been suggested that the Permian–Triassic boundary is associated with a sharp increase in the abundance of marine and terrestrial fungi, caused by the sharp increase in the amount of dead plants and animals fed upon by the fungi.[28] For a while this "fungal spike" was used by some paleontologists to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating or lack suitable index fossils, but even the proposers of the fungal spike hypothesis pointed out that "fungal spikes" may have been a repeating phenomenon created by the post-extinction ecosystem in the earliest Triassic.[28] The very idea of a fungal spike has been criticized on several grounds, including: Reduviasporonites, the most common supposed fungal spore, was actually a fossilized alga;[19][29] the spike did not appear worldwide;[30][31] and in many places it did not fall on the Permian–Triassic boundary.[32] The algae, which were misidentified as fungal spores, may even represent a transition to a lake-dominated Triassic world rather than an earliest Triassic zone of death and decay in some terrestrial fossil beds.[33] Newer chemical evidence agrees better with a fungal origin for Reduviasporonites, diluting these critiques.[34]

Uncertainty exists regarding the duration of the overall extinction and about the timing and duration of various groups' extinctions within the greater process. Some evidence suggests that there were multiple extinction pulses[8] or that the extinction was spread out over a few million years, with a sharp peak in the last million years of the Permian.[32][35] Statistical analyses of some highly fossiliferous strata in Meishan, Zhejiang Province in southeastern China, suggest that the main extinction was clustered around one peak.[13] Recent research shows that different groups became extinct at different times; for example, while difficult to date absolutely, ostracod and brachiopod extinctions were separated by 670 to 1170 thousand years.[36] In a well-preserved sequence in east Greenland, the decline of animals is concentrated in a period 10 to 7001600000000000000♠60 thousand years long, with plants taking several hundred thousand additional years to show the full impact of the event.[37] An older theory, still supported in some recent papers,[8][38] is that there were two major extinction pulses 9.4 million years apart, separated by a period of extinctions well above the background level, and that the final extinction killed off only about 80% of marine species alive at that time while the other losses occurred during the first pulse or the interval between pulses. According to this theory one of these extinction pulses occurred at the end of the Guadalupian epoch of the Permian.[8][39] For example, all but one of the surviving dinocephalian genera died out at the end of the Guadalupian,[40] as did the Verbeekinidae, a family of large-size fusuline foraminifera.[41] The impact of the end-Guadalupian extinction on marine organisms appears to have varied between locations and between taxonomic groups—brachiopods and corals had severe losses.[42][43]

Extinction patterns [ edit ]

Marine extinctions Genera extinct Notes Arthropoda Eurypterids 100% May have become extinct shortly before the P–Tr boundary Ostracods 59% Trilobites 100% In decline since the Devonian; only 2 genera living before the extinction Brachiopoda Brachiopods 96% Orthids and productids died out Bryozoa Bryozoans 79% Fenestrates, trepostomes, and cryptostomes died out Chordata Acanthodians 100% In decline since the Devonian, with only one living family Cnidaria Anthozoans 96% Tabulate and rugose corals died out Echinodermata Blastoids 100% May have become extinct shortly before the P–Tr boundary Crinoids 98% Inadunates and camerates died out Mollusca Ammonites 97% Bivalves 59% Gastropods 98% Retaria Foraminiferans 97% Fusulinids died out, but were almost extinct before the catastrophe Radiolarians 99%[44]

Marine organisms [ edit ]

Marine invertebrates suffered the greatest losses during the P–Tr extinction. Evidence of this was found in samples from south China sections at the P–Tr boundary. Here, 286 out of 329 marine invertebrate genera disappear within the final 2 sedimentary zones containing conodonts from the Permian.[13] The decrease in diversity was probably caused by a sharp increase in extinctions, rather than a decrease in speciation.[45]

The extinction primarily affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons, especially those reliant on stable CO 2 levels to produce their skeletons.[46] These organisms were susceptible to the effects of the ocean acidification that resulted from increased atmospheric CO 2 .

Among benthic organisms the extinction event multiplied background extinction rates, and therefore caused maximum species loss to taxa that had a high background extinction rate (by implication, taxa with a high turnover).[47][48] The extinction rate of marine organisms was catastrophic.[13][49][50][51]

Surviving marine invertebrate groups include: articulate brachiopods (those with a hinge),[52] which have undergone a slow decline in numbers since the P–Tr extinction; the Ceratitida order of ammonites;[53] and crinoids ("sea lilies"),[53] which very nearly became extinct but later became abundant and diverse.

The groups with the highest survival rates generally had active control of circulation, elaborate gas exchange mechanisms, and light calcification; more heavily calcified organisms with simpler breathing apparatuses suffered the greatest loss of species diversity.[18][54] In the case of the brachiopods, at least, surviving taxa were generally small, rare members of a formerly diverse community.[55]

The ammonoids, which had been in a long-term decline for the 30 million years since the Roadian (middle Permian), suffered a selective extinction pulse 10 million years before the main event, at the end of the Capitanian stage. In this preliminary extinction, which greatly reduced disparity, or the range of different ecological guilds, environmental factors were apparently responsible. Diversity and disparity fell further until the P–Tr boundary; the extinction here (P–Tr) was non-selective, consistent with a catastrophic initiator. During the Triassic, diversity rose rapidly, but disparity remained low.[56]

The range of morphospace occupied by the ammonoids, that is, their range of possible forms, shapes or structures, became more restricted as the Permian progressed. A few million years into the Triassic, the original range of ammonoid structures was once again reoccupied, but the parameters were now shared differently among clades.[57]

Terrestrial invertebrates [ edit ]

The Permian had great diversity in insect and other invertebrate species, including the largest insects ever to have existed. The end-Permian is the only known mass extinction of insects,[9] with eight or nine insect orders becoming extinct and ten more greatly reduced in diversity. Palaeodictyopteroids (insects with piercing and sucking mouthparts) began to decline during the mid-Permian; these extinctions have been linked to a change in flora. The greatest decline occurred in the Late Permian and was probably not directly caused by weather-related floral transitions.[49]

Most fossil insect groups found after the Permian–Triassic boundary differ significantly from those that lived prior to the P–Tr extinction. With the exception of the Glosselytrodea, Miomoptera, and Protorthoptera, Paleozoic insect groups have not been discovered in deposits dating to after the P–Tr boundary. The caloneurodeans, monurans, paleodictyopteroids, protelytropterans, and protodonates became extinct by the end of the Permian. In well-documented Late Triassic deposits, fossils overwhelmingly consist of modern fossil insect groups.[9]

Terrestrial plants [ edit ]

Plant ecosystem response [ edit ]

The geological record of terrestrial plants is sparse and based mostly on pollen and spore studies. Interestingly, plants are relatively immune to mass extinction, with the impact of all the major mass extinctions "insignificant" at a family level.[19] Even the reduction observed in species diversity (of 50%) may be mostly due to taphonomic processes.[19] However, a massive rearrangement of ecosystems does occur, with plant abundances and distributions changing profoundly and all the forests virtually disappearing;[19][58] the Palaeozoic flora scarcely survived this extinction.[59]

At the P–Tr boundary, the dominant floral groups changed, with many groups of land plants entering abrupt decline, such as Cordaites (gymnosperms) and Glossopteris (seed ferns).[60] Dominant gymnosperm genera were replaced post-boundary by lycophytes—extant lycophytes are recolonizers of disturbed areas.[61]

Palynological or pollen studies from East Greenland of sedimentary rock strata laid down during the extinction period indicate dense gymnosperm woodlands before the event. At the same time that marine invertebrate macrofauna declined, these large woodlands died out and were followed by a rise in diversity of smaller herbaceous plants including Lycopodiophyta, both Selaginellales and Isoetales. Later, other groups of gymnosperms again become dominant but again suffered major die offs. These cyclical flora shifts occurred a few times over the course of the extinction period and afterwards. These fluctuations of the dominant flora between woody and herbaceous taxa indicate chronic environmental stress resulting in a loss of most large woodland plant species. The successions and extinctions of plant communities do not coincide with the shift in δ13C values, but occurred many years after.[31] The recovery of gymnosperm forests took 4–5 million years.[19]

Coal gap [ edit ]

No coal deposits are known from the Early Triassic, and those in the Middle Triassic are thin and low-grade.[20] This "coal gap" has been explained in many ways. It has been suggested that new, more aggressive fungi, insects and vertebrates evolved, and killed vast numbers of trees. These decomposers themselves suffered heavy losses of species during the extinction, and are not considered a likely cause of the coal gap.[20] It could simply be that all coal forming plants were rendered extinct by the P–Tr extinction, and that it took 10 million years for a new suite of plants to adapt to the moist, acid conditions of peat bogs.[20] On the other hand, abiotic factors (not caused by organisms), such as decreased rainfall or increased input of clastic sediments, may also be to blame.[19] Finally, it is also true that there are very few sediments of any type known from the Early Triassic, and the lack of coal may simply reflect this scarcity. This opens the possibility that coal-producing ecosystems may have responded to the changed conditions by relocating, perhaps to areas where we have no sedimentary record for the Early Triassic.[19] For example, in eastern Australia a cold climate had been the norm for a long period of time, with a peat mire ecosystem adapted to these conditions. Approximately 95% of these peat-producing plants went locally extinct at the P–Tr boundary;[62] Interestingly, coal deposits in Australia and Antarctica disappear significantly before the P–Tr boundary.[19]

Terrestrial vertebrates [ edit ]

There is enough evidence to indicate that over two-thirds of terrestrial labyrinthodont amphibians, sauropsid ("reptile") and therapsid ("proto-mammal") families became extinct. Large herbivores suffered the heaviest losses.

All Permian anapsid reptiles died out except the procolophonids (although testudines have morphologically anapsid skulls, they are now thought to have separately evolved from diapsid ancestors). Pelycosaurs died out before the end of the Permian. Too few Permian diapsid fossils have been found to support any conclusion about the effect of the Permian extinction on diapsids (the "reptile" group from which lizards, snakes, crocodilians, and dinosaurs (including birds) evolved).[63][64]

The groups that survived suffered extremely heavy losses of species, and some terrestrial vertebrate groups very nearly became extinct at the end-Permian. Some of the surviving groups did not persist for long past this period, while others that barely survived went on to produce diverse and long-lasting lineages. Yet it took 30 million years for the terrestrial vertebrate fauna to fully recover both numerically and ecologically.[65]

Possible explanations of these patterns [ edit ]

An analysis of marine fossils from the Permian's final Changhsingian stage found that marine organisms with low tolerance for hypercapnia (high concentration of carbon dioxide) had high extinction rates, while the most tolerant organisms had very slight losses.

The most vulnerable marine organisms were those that produced calcareous hard parts (i.e., from calcium carbonate) and had low metabolic rates and weak respiratory systems—notably calcareous sponges, rugose and tabulate corals, calcite-depositing brachiopods, bryozoans, and echinoderms; about 81% of such genera became extinct. Close relatives without calcareous hard parts suffered only minor losses, for example sea anemones, from which modern corals evolved. Animals with high metabolic rates, well-developed respiratory systems, and non-calcareous hard parts had negligible losses—except for conodonts, in which 33% of genera died out.[66]

This pattern is consistent with what is known about the effects of hypoxia, a shortage but not a total absence of oxygen. However, hypoxia cannot have been the only killing mechanism for marine organisms. Nearly all of the continental shelf waters would have had to become severely hypoxic to account for the magnitude of the extinction, but such a catastrophe would make it difficult to explain the very selective pattern of the extinction. Models of the Late Permian and Early Triassic atmospheres show a significant but protracted decline in atmospheric oxygen levels, with no acceleration near the P–Tr boundary. Minimum atmospheric oxygen levels in the Early Triassic are never less than present day levels—the decline in oxygen levels does not match the temporal pattern of the extinction.[66]

Marine organisms are more sensitive to changes in CO 2 (carbon dioxide) levels than are terrestrial organisms for a variety of reasons. CO 2 is 28 times more soluble in water than is oxygen. Marine animals normally function with lower concentrations of CO 2 in their bodies than land animals, as the removal of CO 2 in air-breathing animals is impeded by the need for the gas to pass through the respiratory system's membranes (lungs' alveolus, tracheae, and the like), even when CO 2 diffuses more easily than oxygen. In marine organisms, relatively modest but sustained increases in CO 2 concentrations hamper the synthesis of proteins, reduce fertilization rates, and produce deformities in calcareous hard parts.[66] In addition, an increase in CO 2 concentration is inevitably linked to ocean acidification, consistent with the preferential extinction of heavily calcified taxa and other signals in the rock record that suggest a more acidic ocean.[67] The decrease in ocean pH is calculated to be up to 0.7 units.[68]

It is difficult to analyze extinction and survival rates of land organisms in detail, because few terrestrial fossil beds span the Permian–Triassic boundary. Triassic insects are very different from those of the Permian, but a gap in the insect fossil record spans approximately 15 million years from the late Permian to early Triassic. The best-known record of vertebrate changes across the Permian–Triassic boundary occurs in the Karoo Supergroup of South Africa, but statistical analyses have so far not produced clear conclusions.[66] However, analysis of the fossil river deposits of the floodplains indicate a shift from meandering to braided river patterns, indicating an abrupt drying of the climate.[69] The climate change may have taken as little as 100,000 years, prompting the extinction of the unique Glossopteris flora and its herbivores, followed by the carnivorous guild.[70] End-Permian extinctions did not occur at an instantaneous time horizon; particularly, floral extinction was delayed in time.[71]

Biotic recovery [ edit ]

Earlier analyses indicated that life on Earth recovered quickly after the Permian extinctions, but this was mostly in the form of disaster taxa, opportunist organisms such as the hardy Lystrosaurus. Research published in 2006 indicates that the specialized animals that formed complex ecosystems, with high biodiversity, complex food webs and a variety of niches, took much longer to recover. It is thought that this long recovery was due to the successive waves of extinction, which inhibited recovery, and prolonged environmental stress to organisms, which continued into the Early Triassic. Research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, 4 to 6 million years after the extinction;[72] and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until 7014946728000000000♠30 Ma after the P–Tr extinction, i.e. in the late Triassic.[8]

A study published in the journal Science[73] found that during the Great Extinction the oceans' surface temperatures reached 40 °C (104 °F), which explains why recovery took so long: it was simply too hot for life to survive.[74] Of course, not all of the Earth's surface was 40°, and if it was simply too hot for life to survive then nothing would have survived. Perhaps anoxia provides another aspect of what delayed the recovery.[75]

During the early Triassic (4 to 6 million years after the P–Tr extinction), the plant biomass was insufficient to form coal deposits, which implies a limited food mass for herbivores.[20] River patterns in the Karoo changed from meandering to braided, indicating that vegetation there was very sparse for a long time.[76]

Each major segment of the early Triassic ecosystem—plant and animal, marine and terrestrial—was dominated by a small number of genera, which appeared virtually worldwide, for example: the herbivorous therapsid Lystrosaurus (which accounted for about 90% of early Triassic land vertebrates) and the bivalves Claraia, Eumorphotis, Unionites and Promylina. A healthy ecosystem has a much larger number of genera, each living in a few preferred types of habitat.[60][77]

Disaster taxa took advantage of the devastated ecosystems and enjoyed a temporary population boom and increase in their territory. Microconchids are the dominant component of otherwise impoverished Early Triassic encrusting assemblages. For example: Lingula (a brachiopod); stromatolites, which had been confined to marginal environments since the Ordovician; Pleuromeia (a small, weedy plant); Dicroidium (a seed fern).[77][78][79]

Changes in marine ecosystems [ edit ]

Sessile filter feeders like this crinoid were significantly less abundant after the P–Tr extinction.

Prior to the extinction, about two-thirds of marine animals were sessile and attached to the sea floor but, during the Mesozoic, only about half of the marine animals were sessile while the rest were free-living. Analysis of marine fossils from the period indicated a decrease in the abundance of sessile epifaunal suspension feeders such as brachiopods and sea lilies and an increase in more complex mobile species such as snails, sea urchins and crabs.[80]

Before the Permian mass extinction event, both complex and simple marine ecosystems were equally common; after the recovery from the mass extinction, the complex communities outnumbered the simple communities by nearly three to one,[80] and the increase in predation pressure led to the Mesozoic Marine Revolution.

Bivalves were fairly rare before the P–Tr extinction but became numerous and diverse in the Triassic, and one group, the rudist clams, became the Mesozoic's main reef-builders. Some researchers think much of this change happened in the 5 million years between the two major extinction pulses.[81]

Crinoids ("sea lilies") suffered a selective extinction, resulting in a decrease in the variety of their forms. Their ensuing adaptive radiation was brisk, and resulted in forms possessing flexible arms becoming widespread; motility, predominantly a response to predation pressure, also became far more prevalent.[83]

Land vertebrates [ edit ]

Lystrosaurus was by far the most abundant early Triassic land vertebrate. was by far the most abundant early Triassic land vertebrate.

Lystrosaurus, a pig-sized herbivorous dicynodont therapsid, constituted as much as 90% of some earliest Triassic land vertebrate fauna. Smaller carnivorous cynodont therapsids also survived, including the ancestors of mammals. In the Karoo region of southern Africa, the therocephalians Tetracynodon, Moschorhinus and Ictidosuchoides survived, but do not appear to have been abundant in the Triassic.[84]

Archosaurs (which included the ancestors of dinosaurs and crocodilians) were initially rarer than therapsids, but they began to displace therapsids in the mid-Triassic. In the mid to late Triassic, the dinosaurs evolved from one group of archosaurs, and went on to dominate terrestrial ecosystems during the Jurassic and Cretaceous.[85] This "Triassic Takeover" may have contributed to the evolution of mammals by forcing the surviving therapsids and their mammaliform successors to live as small, mainly nocturnal insectivores; nocturnal life probably forced at least the mammaliforms to develop fur and higher metabolic rates,[86] while losing part of the differential color-sensitive retinal receptors reptilians and birds preserved.

Some temnospondyl amphibians made a relatively quick recovery, in spite of nearly becoming extinct. Mastodonsaurus and trematosaurians were the main aquatic and semiaquatic predators during most of the Triassic, some preying on tetrapods and others on fish.[87]

Land vertebrates took an unusually long time to recover from the P–Tr extinction; Palaeontologist Michael Benton estimated the recovery was not complete until 7001300000000000000♠30 million years after the extinction, i.e. not until the Late Triassic, in which dinosaurs, pterosaurs, crocodiles, archosaurs, amphibians, and mammaliforms were abundant and diverse.[6]

Causes [ edit ]

Pinpointing the exact cause or causes of the Permian–Triassic extinction event is difficult, mostly because the catastrophe occurred over 250 million years ago, and since then much of the evidence that would have pointed to the cause has been destroyed or is concealed deep within the Earth under many layers of rock. The sea floor is also completely recycled every 200 million years by the ongoing process of plate tectonics and seafloor spreading, leaving no useful indications beneath the ocean.

Scientists have accumulated a fairly significant amount of evidence for causes, and several mechanisms have been proposed for the extinction event. The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event).

The catastrophic group includes one or more large bolide impact events, increased volcanism, and sudden release of methane from the sea floor, either due to dissociation of methane hydrate deposits or metabolism of organic carbon deposits by methanogenic microbes.

group includes one or more large bolide impact events, increased volcanism, and sudden release of methane from the sea floor, either due to dissociation of methane hydrate deposits or metabolism of organic carbon deposits by methanogenic microbes. The gradual group includes sea level change, increasing anoxia, and increasing aridity.

Any hypothesis about the cause must explain the selectivity of the event, which affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons most severely; the long period (4 to 6 million years) before recovery started, and the minimal extent of biological mineralization (despite inorganic carbonates being deposited) once the recovery began.[46]

Impact event [ edit ]

Artist's impression of a major impact event: A collision between Earth and an asteroid a few kilometres in diameter would release as much energy as several million nuclear weapons detonating.

Evidence that an impact event may have caused the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (Cretaceous–Tertiary) has led to speculation that similar impacts may have been the cause of other extinction events, including the P–Tr extinction, and thus to a search for evidence of impacts at the times of other extinctions and for large impact craters of the appropriate age.

Reported evidence for an impact event from the P–Tr boundary level includes rare grains of shocked quartz in Australia and Antarctica;[88][89] fullerenes trapping extraterrestrial noble gases;[90] meteorite fragments in Antarctica;[91] and grains rich in iron, nickel and silicon, which may have been created by an impact.[92] However, the accuracy of most of these claims has been challenged.[93][94][95][96] Quartz from Graphite Peak in Antarctica, for example, once considered "shocked", has been re-examined by optical and transmission electron microscopy. The observed features were concluded to be not due to shock, but rather to plastic deformation, consistent with formation in a tectonic environment such as volcanism.[97]

An impact crater on the sea floor would be evidence of a possible cause of the P–Tr extinction, but such a crater would by now have disappeared. As 70% of the Earth's surface is currently sea, an asteroid or comet fragment is now perhaps more than twice as likely to hit ocean as it is to hit land. However, Earth has no ocean-floor crust more than 200 million years old because the "conveyor belt" process of seafloor spreading and subduction destroys it within that time. Craters produced by very large impacts may be masked by extensive flood basalting from below after the crust is punctured or weakened.[98] Subduction should not, however, be entirely accepted as an explanation of why no firm evidence can be found: as with the K-T event, an ejecta blanket stratum rich in siderophilic elements (such as iridium) would be expected to be seen in formations from the time.

One attraction of large impact theories is that theoretically they could trigger other cause-considered extinction-paralleling phenomena,[clarification needed][99] such as the Siberian Traps eruptions (see below) as being either an impact site[100] or the antipode of an impact site.[99][101] The abruptness of an impact also explains why more species did not rapidly evolve to survive, as would be expected if the Permian-Triassic event had been slower and less global than a meteorite impact.

Possible impact sites [ edit ]

Several possible impact craters have been proposed as the site of an impact causing the P–Tr extinction, including the Bedout structure off the northwest coast of Australia[89] and the hypothesized Wilkes Land crater of East Antarctica.[102][103] In each case, the idea that an impact was responsible has not been proven and has been widely criticized. In the case of Wilkes Land, the age of this sub-ice geophysical feature is very uncertain – it may be later than the Permian–Triassic extinction.

The 40 km (25 mi) Araguainha crater in Brazil has been most recently dated to 254.7 ± 2.5 million years ago, overlapping with estimates for the Permo-Triassic boundary.[104] Much of the local rock was oil shale. The estimated energy released by the Araguainha impact is insufficient to be a direct cause of the global mass extinction, but the colossal local earth tremors would have released huge amounts of oil and gas from the shattered rock. The resulting sudden global warming might have precipitated the Permian–Triassic extinction event.[105]

In May 1992, Michael Rampino published an abstract for the American Geophysical Union noting the discovery of a circular gravity anomaly near the Falkland Islands. He suggested this structure might correspond to an impact crater with a diameter of 250 miles. In August 2017, Rampino, Maximilliano Rocca and Jaime Baez Presser followed up with a paper [106] providing further seismic and magnetic evidence that the structure is an impact crater. Estimates for the age of the structure range up to 250 millions years old. If, in fact, this is an impact crater, it would be substantially larger than the 65 million year old Chicxulub impact crater which is associated with a significant, but smaller extinction event.

Volcanism [ edit ]

The final stages of the Permian had two flood basalt events. A small one, the Emeishan Traps in China, occurred at the same time as the end-Guadalupian extinction pulse, in an area close to the equator at the time.[107][108] The flood basalt eruptions that produced the Siberian Traps constituted one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth and covered over 2,000,000 square kilometres (770,000 sq mi) with lava.[109][110][111] The date of the Siberian Traps eruptions and the extinction event are in good agreement.[22][112]

The Emeishan and Siberian Traps eruptions may have caused dust clouds and acid aerosols, which would have blocked out sunlight and thus disrupted photosynthesis both on land and in the photic zone of the ocean, causing food chains to collapse. The eruptions may also have caused acid rain when the aerosols washed out of the atmosphere. That may have killed land plants and molluscs and planktonic organisms which had calcium carbonate shells. The eruptions would also have emitted carbon dioxide, causing global warming. When all of the dust clouds and aerosols washed out of the atmosphere, the excess carbon dioxide would have remained and the warming would have proceeded without any mitigating effects.[99]

The Siberian Traps had unusual features that made them even more dangerous. Pure flood basalts produce fluid, low-viscosity lava and do not hurl debris into the atmosphere. It appears, however, that 20% of the output of the Siberian Traps eruptions was pyroclastic (consisted of ash and other debris thrown high into the atmosphere), increasing the short-term cooling effect.[113] The basalt lava erupted or intruded into carbonate rocks and into sediments that were in the process of forming large coal beds, both of which would have emitted large amounts of carbon dioxide, leading to stronger global warming after the dust and aerosols settled.[99]

In January 2011, a team, led by Stephen Grasby of the Geological Survey of Canada—Calgary, reported evidence that volcanism caused massive coal beds to ignite, possibly releasing more than 3 trillion tons of carbon. The team found ash deposits in deep rock layers near what is now Buchanan Lake. According to their article, "coal ash dispersed by the explosive Siberian Trap eruption would be expected to have an associated release of toxic elements in impacted water bodies where fly ash slurries developed.... Mafic megascale eruptions are long-lived events that would allow significant build-up of global ash clouds."[114][115] In a statement, Grasby said, "In addition to these volcanoes causing fires through coal, the ash it spewed was highly toxic and was released in the land and water, potentially contributing to the worst extinction event in earth history."[116] In 2013, QY Tang reported the total amounts of important volatiles emitted from the Siberian Traps are 8.5 × 107 Tg CO 2 , 4.4 × 106 Tg CO, 7.0 × 106 Tg H 2 S and 6.8 × 107 Tg SO 2 , the data support a popular notion that the end-Permian mass extinction on the Earth was caused by the emission of enormous amounts of volatiles from the Siberian Traps into the atmosphere.[117]

In 2015, evidence and a timeline indicated the extinction was caused by events in the Large igneous province of the Siberian Traps.[118][119][120][121][122]

Methane hydrate gasification [ edit ]

Scientists have found worldwide evidence of a swift decrease of about 1% in the 13C/12C isotope ratio in carbonate rocks from the end-Permian.[51][123] This is the first, largest, and most rapid of a series of negative and positive excursions (decreases and increases in 13C/12C ratio) that continues until the isotope ratio abruptly stabilised in the middle Triassic, followed soon afterwards by the recovery of calcifying life forms (organisms that use calcium carbonate to build hard parts such as shells).[18]

A variety of factors may have contributed to this drop in the 13C/12C ratio, but most turn out to be insufficient to account fully for the observed amount:[124]

Gases from volcanic eruptions have a 13 C/ 12 C ratio about 0.5 to 0.8% below standard ( δ 13 C about −0.5 to −0.8%), but an assessment made in 1995 concluded that the amount required to produce a reduction of about 1.0% worldwide requires eruptions greater by orders of magnitude than any for which evidence has been found. [125] (However, this analysis addressed only CO 2 produced by the magma itself, not from interactions with carbon bearing sediments, as later proposed.)

C/ C ratio about 0.5 to 0.8% below standard ( C about −0.5 to −0.8%), but an assessment made in 1995 concluded that the amount required to produce a reduction of about 1.0% worldwide requires eruptions greater by orders of magnitude than any for which evidence has been found. (However, this analysis addressed only CO produced by the magma itself, not from interactions with carbon bearing sediments, as later proposed.) A reduction in organic activity would extract 12 C more slowly from the environment and leave more of it to be incorporated into sediments, thus reducing the 13 C/ 12 C ratio. Biochemical processes preferentially use the lighter isotopes since chemical reactions are ultimately driven by electromagnetic forces between atoms and lighter isotopes respond more quickly to these forces, but a study of a smaller drop of 0.3 to 0.4% in 13 C/ 12 C ( δ 13 C −3 to −4 ‰) at the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) concluded that even transferring all the organic carbon (in organisms, soils, and dissolved in the ocean) into sediments would be insufficient: even such a large burial of material rich in 12 C would not have produced the 'smaller' drop in the 13 C/ 12 C ratio of the rocks around the PETM. [125]

C more slowly from the environment and leave more of it to be incorporated into sediments, thus reducing the C/ C ratio. Biochemical processes preferentially use the lighter isotopes since chemical reactions are ultimately driven by electromagnetic forces between atoms and lighter isotopes respond more quickly to these forces, but a study of a smaller drop of 0.3 to 0.4% in C/ C ( C −3 to −4 ‰) at the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) concluded that even transferring all the organic carbon (in organisms, soils, and dissolved in the ocean) into sediments would be insufficient: even such a large burial of material rich in C would not have produced the 'smaller' drop in the C/ C ratio of the rocks around the PETM. Buried sedimentary organic matter has a 13 C/ 12 C ratio 2.0 to 2.5% below normal ( δ 13 C −2.0 to −2.5%). Theoretically, if the sea level fell sharply, shallow marine sediments would be exposed to oxidization. But 6500–8400 gigatons (1 gigaton = 10 9 metric tons) of organic carbon would have to be oxidized and returned to the ocean-atmosphere system within less than a few hundred thousand years to reduce the 13 C/ 12 C ratio by 1.0%, which is not thought to be a realistic possibility. [49] Moreover, sea levels were rising rather than falling at the time of the extinction. [126]

C/ C ratio 2.0 to 2.5% below normal ( C −2.0 to −2.5%). Theoretically, if the sea level fell sharply, shallow marine sediments would be exposed to oxidization. But 6500–8400 gigatons (1 gigaton = 10 metric tons) of organic carbon would have to be oxidized and returned to the ocean-atmosphere system within less than a few hundred thousand years to reduce the C/ C ratio by 1.0%, which is not thought to be a realistic possibility. Moreover, sea levels were rising rather than falling at the time of the extinction. Rather than a sudden decline in sea level, intermittent periods of ocean-bottom hyperoxia and anoxia (high-oxygen and low- or zero-oxygen conditions) may have caused the 13C/12C ratio fluctuations in the Early Triassic;[18] and global anoxia may have been responsible for the end-Permian blip. The continents of the end-Permian and early Triassic were more clustered in the tropics than they are now, and large tropical rivers would have dumped sediment into smaller, partially enclosed ocean basins at low latitudes. Such conditions favor oxic and anoxic episodes; oxic/anoxic conditions would result in a rapid release/burial, respectively, of large amounts of organic carbon, which has a low 13C/12C ratio because biochemical processes use the lighter isotopes more.[127] That or another organic-based reason may have been responsible for both that and a late Proterozoic/Cambrian pattern of fluctuating 13C/12C ratios.[18]

Other hypotheses include mass oceanic poisoning releasing vast amounts of CO 2 [128] and a long-term reorganisation of the global carbon cycle.[124]

Prior to consideration of the inclusion of roasting carbonate sediments by volcanism, the only proposed mechanism sufficient to cause a global 1% reduction in the 13C/12C ratio was the release of methane from methane clathrates.[49] Carbon-cycle models confirm that it would have had enough effect to produce the observed reduction.[124][128] Methane clathrates, also known as methane hydrates, consist of methane molecules trapped in cages of water molecules. The methane, produced by methanogens (microscopic single-celled organisms), has a 13C/12C ratio about 6.0% below normal (δ13C −6.0%). At the right combination of pressure and temperature, it gets trapped in clathrates fairly close to the surface of permafrost and in much larger quantities at continental margins (continental shelves and the deeper seabed close to them). Oceanic methane hydrates are usually found buried in sediments where the seawater is at least 300 m (980 ft) deep. They can be found up to about 2,000 m (6,600 ft) below the sea floor, but usually only about 1,100 m (3,600 ft) below the sea floor.[129]

The area covered by lava from the Siberian Traps eruptions is about twice as large as was originally thought, and most of the additional area was shallow sea at the time. The seabed probably contained methane hydrate deposits, and the lava caused the deposits to dissociate, releasing vast quantities of methane.[130] A vast release of methane might cause significant global warming since methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas. Strong evidence suggests the global temperatures increased by about 6 °C (10.8 °F) near the equator and therefore by more at higher latitudes: a sharp decrease in oxygen isotope ratios (18O/16O);[131] the extinction of Glossopteris flora (Glossopteris and plants that grew in the same areas), which needed a cold climate, with its replacement by floras typical of lower paleolatitudes.[132]

However, the pattern of isotope shifts expected to result from a massive release of methane does not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic. Not only would such a cause require the release of five times as much methane as postulated for the PETM,[18] but would it also have to be reburied at an unrealistically high rate to account for the rapid increases in the 13C/12C ratio (episodes of high positive δ13C) throughout the early Triassic before it was released again several times.[18]

Anoxia [ edit ]

Evidence for widespread ocean anoxia (severe deficiency of oxygen) and euxinia (presence of hydrogen sulfide) is found from the Late Permian to the Early Triassic. Throughout most of the Tethys and Panthalassic Oceans, evidence for anoxia, including fine laminations in sediments, small pyrite framboids, high uranium/thorium ratios, and biomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, appear at the extinction event.[133] However, in some sites, including Meishan, China, and eastern Greenland, evidence for anoxia precedes the extinction.[134][135] Biomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, such as isorenieratane, the diagenetic product of isorenieratene, are widely used as indicators of photic zone euxinia because green sulfur bacteria require both sunlight and hydrogen sulfide to survive. Their abundance in sediments from the P-T boundary indicates hydrogen sulfide was present even in shallow waters.

This spread of toxic, oxygen-depleted water would have been devastating for marine life, producing widespread die-offs. Models of ocean chemistry show that anoxia and euxinia would have been closely associated with hypercapnia (high levels of carbon dioxide).[136] This suggests that poisoning from hydrogen sulfide, anoxia, and hypercapnia acted together as a killing mechanism. Hypercapnia best explains the selectivity of the extinction, but anoxia and euxinia probably contributed to the high mortality of the event. The persistence of anoxia through the Early Triassic may explain the slow recovery of marine life after the extinction. Models also show that anoxic events can cause catastrophic hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere (see below).[137]

The sequence of events leading to anoxic oceans may have been triggered by carbon dioxide emissions from the eruption of the Siberian Traps.[137] In that scenario, warming from the enhanced greenhouse effect would reduce the solubility of oxygen in seawater, causing the concentration of oxygen to decline. Increased weathering of the continents due to warming and the acceleration of the water cycle would increase the riverine flux of phosphate to the ocean. The phosphate would have supported greater primary productivity in the surface oceans. The increase in organic matter production would have caused more organic matter to sink into the deep ocean, where its respiration would further decrease oxygen concentrations. Once anoxia became established, it would have been sustained by a positive feedback loop because deep water anoxia tends to increase the recycling efficiency of phosphate, leading to even higher productivity.

Hydrogen sulfide emissions [ edit ]

A severe anoxic event at the end of the Permian would have allowed sulfate-reducing bacteria to thrive, causing the production of large amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the anoxic ocean. Upwelling of this water may have released massive hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere and would poison terrestrial plants and animals and severely weaken the ozone layer, exposing much of the life that remained to fatal levels of UV radiation.[137] Indeed, biomarker evidence for anaerobic photosynthesis by Chlorobiaceae (green sulfur bacteria) from the Late-Permian into the Early Triassic indicates that hydrogen sulfide did upwell into shallow waters because these bacteria are restricted to the photic zone and use sulfide as an electron donor.

The hypothesis has the advantage of explaining the mass extinction of plants, which would have added to the methane levels and should otherwise have thrived in an atmosphere with a high level of carbon dioxide. Fossil spores from the end-Permian further support the theory:[citation needed] many show deformities that could have been caused by ultraviolet radiation, which would have been more intense after hydrogen sulfide emissions weakened the ozone layer.

The supercontinent Pangaea [ edit ]

Map of Pangaea showing where today's continents were at the Permian–Triassic boundary

About halfway through the Permian (in the Kungurian age of the Permian's Cisuralian epoch), all the continents joined to form the supercontinent Pangaea, surrounded by the superocean Panthalassa, although blocks that are now parts of Asia did not join the supercontinent until very late in the Permian.[138] The configuration severely decreased the extent of shallow aquatic environments, the most productive part of the seas, and it exposed formerly isolated organisms of the rich continental shelves to competition from invaders. Pangaea's formation would also have altered both oceanic circulation and atmospheric weather patterns, creating seasonal monsoons near the coasts and an arid climate in the vast continental interior.[citation needed]

Marine life suffered very high but not very catastrophic rates of extinction after the formation of Pangaea (see the diagram "Marine genus biodiversity" at the top of this article), almost as high as in some of the "Big Five" mass extinctions. The formation of Pangaea seems not to have caused a significant rise in extinction levels on land, and, in fact, most of the advance of the therapsids and increase in their diversity seems to have occurred in the late Permian, after Pangaea was almost complete. Thus, it seems likely that Pangaea initiated a long period of increased marine extinctions but was not directly responsible for the "Great Dying" and the end of the Permian.

Microbes [ edit ]

A hypothesis published in 2014 posits that a genus of anaerobic methanogenic archaea known as Methanosarcina was responsible for the event.[139] Three lines of evidence suggest that these microbes acquired a new metabolic pathway via gene transfer at about that time, enabling them to efficiently metabolize acetate into methane. That would have led to their exponential reproduction, allowing them to rapidly consume vast deposits of organic carbon that had accumulated in the marine sediment. The result would have been a sharp buildup of methane and carbon dioxide in the Earth's oceans and atmosphere, in a manner that may be consistent with the 13C/12C isotopic record. Massive volcanism facilitated this process by releasing large amounts of nickel, a scarce metal which is a cofactor for an enzymes involved in producing methane.[139] On the other hand, in the canonical Meishan sections, the nickel concentration increases somewhat after the δ13C concentrations have begun to fall.[140]

Combination of causes [ edit ]

Possible causes supported by strong evidence appear to describe a sequence of catastrophes, each worse than the last: the Siberian Traps eruptions were bad enough alone, but because they occurred near coal beds and the continental shelf, they also triggered very large releases of carbon dioxide and methane.[66] The resultant global warming may have caused perhaps the most severe anoxic event in the oceans' history: according to this theory, the oceans became so anoxic, anaerobic sulfur-reducing organisms dominated the chemistry of the oceans and caused massive emissions of toxic hydrogen sulfide.[66]

However, there may be some weak links in this chain of events: the changes in the 13C/12C ratio expected to result from a massive release of methane do not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic;[18] and the types of oceanic thermohaline circulation that may have existed at the end of the Permian are not likely to have supported deep-sea anoxia.[141]

See also [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

Further reading [ edit ]

"Smug mocking" is not a short term strategy, but a long-term one. You're sort of missing the forest for the trees: what you see as a tactic for winning, I see as a tactic for social change. Think about it for a second. Why did public health campaigns against smoking work? They worked because the message was *ubiquitous* and *clear*: it's advertising 101, and as a Trump supporter you of all people should recognize that since Trump is a master of this (i.e. advertising himself to people with a clear message, expressing contempt for the "right" people [e.g. the system/status quo], etc). 

The "smugness" and "condescension" are a much broader cultural strategy. Ben Shapiro talks a lot about this, if you're interested in the quasi-intellectual (it's not a scholarly argument, which is why I say 'quasi'; that's not a dig at him at all, or I would have said 'pseudo') argument about this from a conservative angle. We witnessed during this election only a snapshot of a broader cultural strategy to make some things fashionable and other things unfashionable. e.g. You don't want transgender rights? "ugh, so backwards and [insert contemptuous language here]". 

I hate to break it to you, but the strategy seems to be working. Younger generations are much more "politically correct" than older generations, in part because of the social pressure generated by this cultural strategy. Gay marriage is the law of the land, for crying out loud--surely you don't attribute that to anything other than a broad, systematic shift in cultural attitudes (it seems to have gone from "Gay marriage is fundamentally bad for our society" to "Live and let live, but don't tread on my right to still personally believe it's immoral [see cases about catering gay weddings, for example]". That's a powerful shift, and I think it has to do with the fact that society has put pressure on those who opposed Gay marriage by making moral arguments against them (which often feel cruel, condescending, etc). 

And that's the fundamental point, I think. When it's a moral argument, there's almost always "smugness; condescension; shaming; and cruelty". This is because morality is not rational: all morality is based on assumptions whether we want to admit it or not, and so once we start having disagreements about those assumptions, there's nothing left to rationally argue about. This results in a tautological cycle where we use morality to argue morality: 

*("You're a bad human being for believing in this bad morality". "Why does that make me a bad human being?" "Because you believe in that bad morality". "But how do you know it makes me bad?" "Because only bad people can believe in that bad morality". etc. etc. ad nauseum)*.  

The truth is that this tactic is working quite well. Shaming and social manipulation generally is one of the single best ways we have of keeping our fellow human beings in line with things that are otherwise not necessarily objectively provable. Since so much of our lives are governed by these non-objective things, this is a ubiquitous phenomenon. If you don't believe me, try going to one of those young-people religious lectures in a college campus. You know the ones I'm talking about: the bubbly, excited Christians who invite the "young, cool, hip preacher" to encourage people to keep their faith. Go there and try to engage the preacher in a rational discussion: you'll find *immediate* condescension; smugness; and dismissal-through-humor tactics, because that's how the message sinks in. It's a tactic of social shaming and control, and don't make the mistake of believing it does not work. 

What you are seeing from liberals is a socio-cultural tactic of broad, large-scale cultural scale. The backlash to this change is only a symptom of the underlying process.#1# Political Science research has shown, for example, that [increased and severe terrorist attacks can be a sign of weakening rather than strengthening]#1#(http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2016/05/19/isis-attacks-abroad-sign-weakness/). Harsh backlash should be viewed very carefully; I contend that this harsh backlash of Trump is masking an underlying phenomenon, which is that liberals have been "winning" the culture games for the past several decades. Whether this trend continues is anyone's guess, but you should not think of these otherwise manipulative social tactics you're decrying are part of a short-term electoral strategy. Rather, they are part of a much larger, longer-scale cultural strategy--and make no mistake about it, they are working exactly as they are supposed to. 



http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2016/05/19/isis-attacks-abroad-sign-weakness/
ISIS INCREASED ATTACKS ABROAD ARE A SIGN OF WEAKNESS
ISIS Increased Attacks Abroad are a Sign of Weakness

On March 22, terror struck Brussels with a twin blast at Zaventem Airport and the Maelbeek metro station, claiming the lives of 32 people and injuring over 300. The attacks claimed by ISIS came only a few days after a suicide bombing killed five and injured 36 in Istanbul—the fourth suicide bombing in Turkey in 2016.

The latest bombings have reheated the debate within the EU about tighter border controls—possibly foreshadowing the eventual breakdown of the Schengen Agreement. In addition, the attacks have hardened Europe’s determination to combat terrorism at home, with increased monitoring of ISIS fighters returning from the Middle East and improved intelligence sharing between EU members, and abroad, whether through ramping up aircraft deployments in the coalition against the Islamic State or by supplying weapons to local actors.

#1#Experts have argued that ISIS’s increased activity abroad is a sign of weakness rather than strength.#1# As the so-called caliphate begins to crumble—ISIS is thought to have lost around 20% of its territory in Syria and over 40% in Iraq since its peak expansion in August 2014—the group is allocating efforts and resources toward large-scale terrorist attacks abroad in order to influence the strategic calculations of the coalition member countries at a reduced cost.

Since ISIS’s “winner’s message” of “remaining and expanding” sounds increasingly hollow, this tactical shift is one way to catch global headlines and retain its legitimacy and ability to recruit.

Although the increased operational tempo of terrorist attacks is the manifestation of the group’s faltering, the ISIS underlying ideology is not expected to wither away anytime soon. Jonathan Schanzer, a former terrorism finance analyst at the Treasury Department, argues that “defeating the formal military presence of a terrorist group will not significantly mitigate the threat of lone wolf or small independent cells that are based in the West.”

In its heartland, ISIS is definitely in retreat. According to Pentagon officials, U.S. airstrikes have killed over 25,000 Islamic State fighters and deprived the group of millions of dollars in revenue. Financially debilitated, it has halved salaries of its civil servants and is releasing hostages for sums as low as $500.

Indeed, ISIS has not scored a significant victory since taking Palmyra in May 2015. The ancient city was recaptured by the Syrian regime, supported by Russian airstrikes, on March 27, 2016, reducing ISIS’s ability to threaten Syria’s coastal regions.

In Iraq, after retaking Tikrit in March 2015 and Ramadi in December, the government in Baghdad declared on March 24 the beginning of operations to retake Mosul. The offensive to regain Iraq’s second largest city will not be easy.

After some initial success reclaiming nearby villages, progress in the military campaign was stalled. More sober prognostics have now replaced the once optimistic talks of pushing ISIS out of Mosul by the end of the year—military analysts estimate that there is little prospect of an assault on the city before 2017.

With about 10,000 fighters and almost two years to erect a multilayered defense, a force of at least 40,000 would be needed to overcome the group, according to estimates. Indeed, the current under-strength Iraqi division supported by U.S. military advisers looks woefully inadequate for the task.

Moreover, because of ethno-religious tensions, Kurdish Peshmerga seem uninterested in helping take a city that would never be part of an independent Kurdistan while Shi‘a-dominated militias—instrumental in retaking Tikrit—will probably be kept away for fears of sectarian reprisals following the conquest of the Sunni-majority city.

An important factor in the battle for Mosul is America’s involvement. The Pentagon wants to go beyond air strikes and the current deployment of military advisers and introduce additional special forces. However, this goes against Obama’s “no boots on the ground” pledge—although an increasingly tenuous promise, it rules out the deployment on the scale necessary to retake Mosul.

After attempting to train local forces—leading to the disastrous $500 million train-and-equip program for Syrian moderates that yielded little to no results—and bombing oil production facilities under Operation Tidal Wave II, the U.S. is now focusing on a leadership decapitation campaign, using special forces on the ground. In March, American forces killed Haji Iman, ISIS’s second-in-command, as well as Abu Omar al-Shishanim, the group’s “war minister.”

Secretary of Defense Ash Carter explained current U.S. strategy: “we are systematically eliminating ISIL’s cabinet,” in order to “hamper the ability for them to conduct operations inside and outside of Iraq and Syria.” Although the leadership is capable of regenerating itself and operating on the ground, taking out leaders reduces the group’s ability to conduct terrorist attacks abroad as they require a more sophisticated network and superior coordination.

Talks of a new training program—allegedly more narrowly focused—and Obama’s decision to add 250 military personnel to the 50 already on the ground in Syria are the latest development in the U.S. effort to capitalize on the momentum in the campaign against the Islamic State. It remains to be seen whether or not these new policies achieve the desired outcome.

Recommended Readings

Max Fisher, “The Brussels attack is Europe’s new reality,” Vox (Mar. 22, 2016).

Eric Schmitt and Alissa J. Rubin “ISIS Spreading in Europe, U.S. Intelligence Chief Warns,”

The New York Times (Apr. 25, 2016).

“The last battle,” The Economist (Apr. 16, 2016).

Premise 1: Trump has certainly said racist, sexist things, but his actions don't really suggest he is worse than the average person. I think we are all guilty of making tasteless jokes from time to time, but that doesn't mean we are racists. Trump does not have the filter that polished politicians do, so he comes off as brash and mean.

Premise 2 & 3: If you accept my first premise, then they are not voting for a bigot.

Either way, Robert Byrd was a US senator and former head of the KKK and #1#"Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton once heaped praise for late Klan leader Sen. Robert Byrd."#1# (http://www.snopes.com/clinton-byrd-photo-klan/), so by your premises, she is also a racist/bigot and thus so are her supporters.




http://www.snopes.com/clinton-byrd-photo-klan/
HILLARY CLINTON KISSED BY FORMER KLAN MEMBER
CLAIM

A photograph shows Hillary Clinton with former Ku Klux Klan member Robert Byrd.

TRUE

RATING

TRUE

ORIGIN

Shortly after Donald Trump declined to condemn David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan during an interview on CNN’s “State Of The Union” on 28 February 2016 (the Republican presidential candidate would later blame it on a faulty earpiece) a photograph purportedly showing Hillary Clinton with former Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, a former Ku Klux Klan member, was widely circulated online:

The photograph was posted by numerous web sites along with articles arguing that the news media were being hypocritical in their coverage of Trump’s purported connections to a white supremacist hate group, while making no mention of Hillary Clinton. The Daily Caller also published a video of Clinton praising Byrd’s service in Congress:

Despite mounting criticism for Donald Trump’s failure to disavow former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke’s support, #1#Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton once heaped praise for late Klan leader Sen. Robert Byrd#1#. In a video uploaded to the State Department’s official YouTube page on June 28, 2010, Clinton commemorated late Sen. Byrd by saying, “Today our country has lost a true American original, my friend and mentor Robert C. Byrd.

This photograph and video are undeniably genuine: The photograph was taken in July 2004, and the video of Clinton was filmed on 28 June 2010, shortly after Byrd’s death.

It’s also true that Robert Byrd was a member of the Ku Klux Klan in the 1940s and helped establish the hate group’s chapter in Sophia, West Virginia. However, in 1952 Byrd avowed that “After about a year, I became disinterested [in the KKK], quit paying my dues, and dropped my membership in the organization,” and throughout his long political career (he served for 57 years in the United States Congress) he repeatedly apologized for his involvement with the KKK:

“I know now I was wrong. Intolerance had no place in America. I apologized a thousand times … and I don’t mind apologizing over and over again. I can’t erase what happened.”

In 2010, even the NAACP released a statement honoring Senator Byrd and mourning his passing:

The NAACP is saddened by the passing of United States Senator Robert Byrd. Byrd, the longest serving member of congress was first elected to the U.S. House from [West Virginia] in 1952 and was elected Senator in 1958. Byrd passed away this morning at the age of 92. “Senator Byrd reflects the transformative power of this nation,” stated NAACP President and CEO Benjamin Todd Jealous. “Senator Byrd went from being an active member of the KKK to a being a stalwart supporter of the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act and many other pieces of seminal legislation that advanced the civil rights and liberties of our country. “Senator Byrd came to consistently support the NAACP civil rights agenda, doing well on the NAACP Annual Civil Rights Report Card. He stood with us on many issues of crucial importance to our members from the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, the historic health care legislation of 2010 and his support for the Hate Crimes Prevention legislation,” stated Hilary O. Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy. “Senator Byrd was a master of the Senate Rules, and helped strategize passage of legislation that helped millions of Americans. He will be sorely missed.”

Although this image was used to criticize the media for ignoring Hillary Clinton’s connection to former KKK member Robert Byrd while simultaneously playing up Donald Trump’s comments regarding former Klan member David Duke, several factors made the latter much more newsworthy in early 2016

First of all, Trump declined to condemn Duke and the Ku Klux Klan in February 2016, making the story current and newsworthy, whilephotograph of Hillary Clinton was taken more than a decade ago. The lack of current coverage isn’t because the print media are ignoring the association, but because the photograph is a several-year-old story.

Second, while David Duke is no longer a member of the Ku Klux Klan, he is still an active member of another white supremacist organization, NAAWP: the National Association for the Advancement of White People. Duke, a prominent Holocaust denier (although he describes himself as a “Holocaust exposer“), also has a more-than-passing interest in politics: the former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives has run for the U.S. Senate, governor of Louisiana, and President of the United States. Duke has spent his life founding and supporting various white nationalist and white supremacist groups, while Byrd, by contrast, spent the majority of his life publicly disavowing and repeatedly apologizing for hisearly KKK affiliation.

After the civil rights movement, not much changed in popular culture and livingroom culture in the US WRT racism and equal rights. I lot of the change came from the fact that it became publicly shameful to be overtly racist in normal society.

[Read this explanation of #1#the effect that superman had on KKK membership#1#](http://mentalfloss.com/article/23157/how-superman-defeated-ku-klux-klan). Shame works, and it has worked in the past. It didn't work now, but it's partly because Trump was wrapped up in a lot of different movements at once. 

It's worked in the past, it has worked for the gay rights movement, it will work in future situations.



http://mentalfloss.com/article/23157/how-superman-defeated-ku-klux-klan
HOW SUPERMAN DEFEATED THE KU KLUX KLAN
In the 1940s, The Adventures of Superman was a radio sensation. Kids across the country huddled around their sets as the Man of Steel leapt off the page and over the airwaves. Although Superman had been fighting crime in print since 1938, the weekly audio episodes fleshed out his storyline even further. It was on the radio that Superman first faced kryptonite, met Daily Planet reporter Jimmy Olsen, and became associated with "truth, justice, and the American way." So, it's no wonder that when a young writer and activist named Stetson Kennedy decided to expose the secrets of the Ku Klux Klan, he looked to a certain superhero for inspiration.

In the post-World War II era, the Klan experienced a huge resurgence. Its membership was skyrocketing, and its political influence was increasing, so Kennedy went undercover to infiltrate the group. By regularly attending meetings, he became privy to the organization's secrets. But when he took the information to local authorities, they had little interest in using it. The Klan had become so powerful and intimidating that police were hesitant to build a case against them.

MORE FROM MENTAL FLOSS STUDIOS

Struggling to make use of his findings, Kennedy approached the writers of the Superman radio serial. It was perfect timing. With the war over and the Nazis no longer a threat, the producers were looking for a new villain for Superman to fight. The KKK was a great fit for the role.

In a 16-episode series titled "Clan of the Fiery Cross," the writers pitted the Man of Steel against the men in white hoods.

#1#As the storyline progressed, the shows exposed many of the KKK's most guarded secrets. By revealing everything from code words to rituals, the program completely stripped the Klan of its mystique. Within two weeks of the broadcast, KKK recruitment was down to zero. And by 1948, people were showing up to Klan rallies just to mock them.#1#

This story originally appeared in a 2008 issue of mental_floss magazine.
Yes, but that's a completely different proposal than what the OP is suggesting. Also, if you are going to proportionality then you might as well call the way and follow the #1#[National Popular Vote Interstate Compact]#1#(https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact) and give each state's electoral votes to the winner of the popular vote.



https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact
NATIONAL POPULAR VOTE INTERSTATE COMPACT
Mechanism Edit

Proposed in the form of an interstate compact, the agreement would go into effect among the participating states in the compact only after they collectively represent an absolute majority of votes (currently at least 270) in the Electoral College. In the next presidential election after adoption by the requisite number of states, #1#the participating states would award all of their electoral votes to presidential electors associated with the candidate who wins the overall popular vote in the 50 states and the District of Columbia#1#. As a result, the winner of the national popular vote would always win the presidency by always securing a majority of votes in the Electoral College. Until the compact's conditions are met, all states award electoral votes in their current manner. The compact would modify the way participating states implement Article II, Section 1, Clause 2 of the U.S. Constitution, which requires each state legislature to define a method to appoint its electors to vote in the Electoral College (although systems that violate the 14th Amendment, which mandates equal protection of law and prohibits racial discrimination, would be prohibited). The Constitution does not mandate any particular legislative scheme for selecting electors, and instead vests state legislatures with the exclusive power to choose how to allocate its own electors.[3][4] States have chosen various methods of allocation over the years, with regular changes in the nation's early decades. Today, all but two states (Maine and Nebraska) award all their electoral votes to the candidate with the most votes statewide.

Motivation behind the compact Edit

Debate Edit

History Edit

Bills Edit

See also Edit

So clearly, we are living in a time where we feel justified to hate on "illegals". The solution that the president-elect has been talking about for years is a giant wall on the US southern border. I see this solution as such:

I have a giant block of cheese sitting in the middle of my house. Mice will not stop getting into my house and eating this block of cheese (I don't think mice are really into cheese like this, but I can't think of a better analogy at the moment). So my idea is to leave the block of cheese and try catching the mice and releasing them back outside my house. Of course, they know the cheese is there and they keep coming for the cheese. 

The problem with undocumented workers coming into the country to take jobs is that there is someone offering these jobs to undocumented workers. Construction crews, agriculture, etc., are all industries where the leaders can save a whole lot of money by having undocumented workers, pay them salaries below minimum wage, offer no benefits, and threaten to have them deported. 

What I think we should do is go after these people. If instead of a giant wall and an insane increase in a task force, it would be a lot cheaper to have a regulative authority that regularly audits and investigates companies that engage in this practice. And companies that are found engaging in it should face severe punishment....I'm talking massive fines for first offense and revoking of business licenses in other offenses, potentially increasing to the point of confiscating the business and property. 

I assume that there is already a bit of a penalty in place for these employers, but the risk of getting caught must still be cheaper than the cost of only hiring American workers at decent wages. 

EDIT: Okay everyone, I object to using the word illegal to describe an entire group of people. #1#It's insensitive, offensive, and in the context, racist.#1# http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/

EDIT 2: Let me clarify my personal views. I think this country needs MORE immigration, not less. I think we need open borders and that we're moving towards globalization and overall, we need to move away from the idea of American superiority. I truly don't believe that illegal immigration is a problem severe enough to warrant building a massive wall, though I do concede that it may be easier to try to keep people out than to try to regulate business. My main issue is the republican talking point, and one of the cornerstones of the president-elect's campaign that blames undocumented workers for taking American jobs and making the country less safe. And I do believe that even though it's not an easy thing to do, we should be working more to fight the people that wish to exploit desperate people than the people willing to do anything to improve the lives of their family.
_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/
U.S. IMMIGRATION: WHY CALLING UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE 'ILLEGAL' IS WRONG
#1#It's inflammatory, imprecise and, most of all, inaccurate.#1# So why does everyone — from Chuck Schumer to Mitt Romney — use it?

FREDERIC J. BROWN / AFP / Getty Images People wait in line to enter the office of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles on the first day of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Aug. 15, 2012

Related Under Fire on Immigration, Romney Vows Reasonable Solution CNN

What part of “illegal” don’t you understand?

Add that to the list of questions I am repeatedly asked since publicly disclosing my undocumented-immigrant status in the summer of 2011. Calling undocumented people “illegal immigrants” — or worse, “illegal aliens,” as Mitt Romney did in front of a largely Latino audience last week — has become such standard practice for politicians and the media, from Bill O’Reilly to the New York Times, that people of all political persuasions do not think twice about doing it too.

(MORE: For Romney, Fundraising Comes First)

But describing an immigrant as illegal is legally inaccurate. Being in the U.S. without proper documents is a civil offense, not a criminal one. (Underscoring this reality, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority opinion on SB 1070, Arizona’s controversial immigration law: “As a general rule, it is not a crime for a movable alien to remain in the United States.”) In a country that believes in due process of the law, calling an immigrant illegal is akin to calling a defendant awaiting trial a criminal. The term illegal is also imprecise. For many undocumented people — there are 11 million in the U.S. and most have immediate family members who are American citizens, either by birth or naturalization — their immigration status is fluid and, depending on individual circumstances, can be adjusted.

When journalists, who are supposed to seek neutrality and fairness, use the term, they are politicizing an already political issue. (How can using illegal immigrant be considered neutral, for example, when Republican strategist Frank Luntz encouraged using the term in a 2005 memo to tie undocumented people with criminality?) And the term dehumanizes and marginalizes the people it seeks to describe. Think of it this way: In what other contexts do we call someone illegal? If someone is driving a car at 14, we say “underage driver,” not “illegal driver.” If someone is driving under the influence, we call them a “drunk driver,” not an “illegal driver.” Put another way: How would you feel if you — or your family members or friends — were referred to as illegal?

(MORE: How Obama’s New Policy Affects Undocumented Youth — and Me)

Each newsroom abides by its own stylebook — how it defines and uses words and phrases. In the past few years, a small handful of news organizations have ceased using the term illegal immigrant in favor of undocumented immigrant. The Miami Herald, for example, began doing so as early as 2003 and instituted it paperwide a few years later. The Huffington Post — one the largest general news sources in the U.S. — followed suit in 2008. Two years later, the San Antonio Express-News amended its policy. That was around the same time a campaign called Drop the I-Word was launched, targeting leading news organizations like the Associated Press, whose influential stylebook still stands by illegal immigrant.

(MORE: Our National Immigration Policy: Still Clear as Mud)

In an increasingly diverse society in which undocumented immigrants are integrated in all walks of life, language belongs to the people whose stories are being told, whose distinct realities need to be accurately and fairly represented to the benefit of everyone. To be an undocumented person in the U.S., after all, is to live a life dictated by getting the proper documents. Immigration in the U.S. is more than a question of legality — it’s about history, about foreign policy, about economy in a globalized and interconnected world.

(MORE: TIME’s Cover Story “Not Legal, Not Leaving”)

I was born in the Philippines, a former American territory, and moved to the U.S. when I was 12. I found out that I was undocumented — that I didn’t have the proper documents — after trying to get a driver’s license at age 16. A year later, my high school sophomore-English teacher said I was asking too many questions and “should try this thing called journalism.” I was hooked, partly because seeing my byline, my name on a piece of paper, validated my existence in a way my fake green card and fake passport that my grandfather bought to smuggle me into America did not. When I got older, my grandfather’s lies became my lies. For more than a decade, I lied about my immigration status so I could get jobs, pay taxes and provide for myself and my family. But the lies stopped — they had to. Like countless other undocumented people, particularly young ones who’ve grown up in the U.S. and call this country our home, I outed myself to be seen as a human being who is more than my immigration status.

Don’t all human beings deserve to be reported on fairly and accurately?

(PHOTOS: Harvesting Labor Rights: Chavez’s UFW At 50)

> http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/

#1#This was an exit poll in the primaries, where middle to upper income people were more likely to vote. #1#

> Trump IS the wealthy businessman people are worried are influencing politics!

In the general election, Trump won 52% of the $25,000 to $30,000 a year votes, beating Clinton by nine points. That's a gigantic margin. If people saw him as a threat to their economic situation, these margins would not be so wide.



http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/
THE MYTHOLOGY OF TRUMP’S ‘WORKING CLASS’ SUPPORT
It’s been extremely common for news accounts to portray Donald Trump’s candidacy as a “working-class” rebellion against Republican elites. There are elements of truth in this perspective: Republican voters, especially Trump supporters, are unhappy about the direction of the economy. Trump voters have lower incomes than supporters of John Kasich or Marco Rubio. And things have gone so badly for the Republican “establishment” that the party may be facing an existential crisis.

But the definition of “working class” and similar terms is fuzzy, and narratives like these risk obscuring an important and perhaps counterintuitive fact about Trump’s voters: As compared with most Americans, Trump’s voters are better off. The median household income of a Trump voter so far in the primaries is about $72,000, based on estimates derived from exit polls and Census Bureau data. That’s lower than the $91,000 median for Kasich voters. But it’s well above the national median household income of about $56,000. It’s also higher than the median income for Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders supporters, which is around $61,000 for both.

These figures, as I mentioned, are derived from exit polls, which so far have been conducted in 23 primary states. #1#The exit polls have asked voters to describe their 2015 family income by using one of five broad categories, ranging from “under $30,000” to “$200,000 or more.”#1# It’s fairly straightforward to interpolate a median income for voters of each candidate from this data; for instance, we can infer that the median Clinton voter in Wisconsin made about $63,000. You can find my estimates for each candidate in each state in the following table, along with each state’s overall household median income in 2015.

MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME STATE STATEWIDE* CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP Maryland $79k $92k $77k $92k $119k $95k New Hampshire 76 84 69 77 99 78 Connecticut 73 102 75 101 119 99 Virginia 69 83 71 79 114 82 Massachusetts 65 87 68 84 107 93 Vermont 63 80 61 62 85 70 Wisconsin 60 63 63 80 76 69 Missouri 59 58 53 64 80 62 Illinois 57 61 66 74 99 79 Pennsylvania 57 59 57 64 83 71 New York 56 64 65 56 83 85 Texas 56 63 62 82 98 78 Michigan 54 56 51 62 75 61 Georgia 51 59 55 88 89 70 Ohio 51 59 62 62 92 64 Oklahoma 49 57 54 71 102 69 Florida 48 51 50 64 87 70 North Carolina 48 59 56 74 92 62 Arkansas 47 47 49 67 67 63 South Carolina 47 39 47 64 108 72 Tennessee 45 61 52 73 82 64 Alabama 44 44 53 63 75 58 Mississippi 37 38 39 64 97 62 All states** 56 61 61 73 91 72 Trump voters, like others in the GOP, have relatively high incomes * The state median includes all households, not just those that voted in the primaries.

** The aggregate estimate is weighted based on the number of votes a candidate received in each state. Source: Edison Research Exit Polls, Census bureau

Trump voters’ median income exceeded the overall statewide median in all 23 states, sometimes narrowly (as in New Hampshire or Missouri) but sometimes substantially. In Florida, for instance, the median household income for Trump voters was about $70,000, compared with $48,000 for the state as a whole. The differences are usually larger in states with substantial non-white populations, as black and Hispanic voters are overwhelmingly Democratic and tend to have lower incomes. In South Carolina, for example, the median Trump supporter had a household income of $72,000, while the median for Clinton supporters was $39,000.

Ted Cruz voters have a similar median income to Trump supporters — about $73,000. Kasich’s supporters have a very high median income, $91,000, and it has exceeded $100,000 in several states. Rubio’s voters, not displayed in the table above, followed a similar pattern to Kasich voters, with a median income of $88,000.

Many of the differences reflect that Republican voters are wealthier overall than Democratic ones, and also that wealthier Americans are more likely to turn out to vote, especially in the primaries. However, while Republican turnout has considerably increased overall from four years ago, there’s no sign of a particularly heavy turnout among “working-class” or lower-income Republicans. On average in states where exit polls were conducted both this year and in the Republican campaign four years ago, 29 percent of GOP voters have had household incomes below $50,000 this year, compared with 31 percent in 2012.

STATE 2012 2016 Alabama 37% 41% Florida 34 33 Georgia 24 26 Illinois 28 23 Maryland 19 19 Massachusetts 24 20 Michigan 35 37 Mississippi 36 37 New Hampshire 26 27 Ohio 32 30 Oklahoma 41 30 South Carolina 36 27 Tennessee 35 33 Vermont 37 30 Virginia 25 19 Wisconsin 32 28 Average 31 29 Share of Republican electorate with household income below $50,000 Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

The median income for Clinton and Sanders voters — $61,000 for each candidate — is generally much closer to the overall median income in each state. But even Democratic turnout tends to skew slightly toward a wealthier electorate, somewhat validating Sanders’s claim that “poor people don’t vote.” I estimate that 27 percent of American households had incomes under $30,000 last year. By comparison, 20 percent of Clinton voters did, as did 18 percent of Sanders supporters. (Those figures imply Clinton might have a bigger edge on Sanders if more poor people voted, although it would depend on whether they were black, white or Hispanic.) Both Democratic candidates do better than the Republicans in this category, however. Only 12 percent of Trump voters have incomes below $30,000; when you also consider that Clinton has more votes than Trump overall, that means about twice as many low-income voters have cast a ballot for Clinton than for Trump so far this year.

SHARE OF VOTERS HOUSEHOLD INCOME SHARE OF ALL U.S. H’HOLDS CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP <$30,000 27% 20% 18% 11% 9% 12% $30,000-$49,999 18 21 23 17 14 20 $50,000-$99,999 29 30 34 41 31 34 $100,000-$199,999 20 22 21 25 32 25 ≥$200,000 6 7 5 6 14 9 Low-income voters are underrepresented, especially in the GOP Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

Class in America is a complicated concept, and it may be that Trump supporters see themselves as having been left behind in other respects. Since almost all of Trump’s voters so far in the primaries have been non-Hispanic whites, we can ask whether they make lower incomes than other white Americans, for instance. The answer is “no.” The median household income for non-Hispanic whites is about $62,000, still a fair bit lower than the $72,000 median for Trump voters.

Likewise, although about 44 percent of Trump supporters have college degrees, according to exit polls — lower than the 50 percent for Cruz supporters or 64 percent for Kasich supporters — that’s still higher than the 33 percent of non-Hispanic white adults, or the 29 percent of American adults overall, who have at least a bachelor’s degree.

This is not to say that Trump voters are happy about the condition of the economy. Substantial majorities of Republicans in every state so far have said they’re “very worried” about the condition of the U.S. economy, according to exit polls, and these voters have been more likely to vote for Trump. But that anxiety doesn’t necessarily reflect their personal economic circumstances, which for many Trump voters, at least in a relative sense, are reasonably good.

Check out our live coverage of the Indiana primary elections.

Interesting you say that since further in the thread, I already awarded a delta.

#1#The term "illegals" being used to define a group of people is offensive and since it is used (definitely in this context) to describe a particular racial group, it's racist. #1#

http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/

Language matters.



http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/
U.S. IMMIGRATION: WHY CALLING UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE 'ILLEGAL' IS WRONG
#1#It's inflammatory, imprecise and, most of all, inaccurate.#1# So why does everyone — from Chuck Schumer to Mitt Romney — use it?

FREDERIC J. BROWN / AFP / Getty Images People wait in line to enter the office of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles on the first day of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Aug. 15, 2012

Related Under Fire on Immigration, Romney Vows Reasonable Solution CNN

What part of “illegal” don’t you understand?

Add that to the list of questions I am repeatedly asked since publicly disclosing my undocumented-immigrant status in the summer of 2011. Calling undocumented people “illegal immigrants” — or worse, “illegal aliens,” as Mitt Romney did in front of a largely Latino audience last week — has become such standard practice for politicians and the media, from Bill O’Reilly to the New York Times, that people of all political persuasions do not think twice about doing it too.

(MORE: For Romney, Fundraising Comes First)

But describing an immigrant as illegal is legally inaccurate. Being in the U.S. without proper documents is a civil offense, not a criminal one. (Underscoring this reality, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority opinion on SB 1070, Arizona’s controversial immigration law: “As a general rule, it is not a crime for a movable alien to remain in the United States.”) In a country that believes in due process of the law, calling an immigrant illegal is akin to calling a defendant awaiting trial a criminal. The term illegal is also imprecise. For many undocumented people — there are 11 million in the U.S. and most have immediate family members who are American citizens, either by birth or naturalization — their immigration status is fluid and, depending on individual circumstances, can be adjusted.

When journalists, who are supposed to seek neutrality and fairness, use the term, they are politicizing an already political issue. (How can using illegal immigrant be considered neutral, for example, when Republican strategist Frank Luntz encouraged using the term in a 2005 memo to tie undocumented people with criminality?) And the term dehumanizes and marginalizes the people it seeks to describe. Think of it this way: In what other contexts do we call someone illegal? If someone is driving a car at 14, we say “underage driver,” not “illegal driver.” If someone is driving under the influence, we call them a “drunk driver,” not an “illegal driver.” Put another way: How would you feel if you — or your family members or friends — were referred to as illegal?

(MORE: How Obama’s New Policy Affects Undocumented Youth — and Me)

Each newsroom abides by its own stylebook — how it defines and uses words and phrases. In the past few years, a small handful of news organizations have ceased using the term illegal immigrant in favor of undocumented immigrant. The Miami Herald, for example, began doing so as early as 2003 and instituted it paperwide a few years later. The Huffington Post — one the largest general news sources in the U.S. — followed suit in 2008. Two years later, the San Antonio Express-News amended its policy. That was around the same time a campaign called Drop the I-Word was launched, targeting leading news organizations like the Associated Press, whose influential stylebook still stands by illegal immigrant.

(MORE: Our National Immigration Policy: Still Clear as Mud)

In an increasingly diverse society in which undocumented immigrants are integrated in all walks of life, language belongs to the people whose stories are being told, whose distinct realities need to be accurately and fairly represented to the benefit of everyone. To be an undocumented person in the U.S., after all, is to live a life dictated by getting the proper documents. Immigration in the U.S. is more than a question of legality — it’s about history, about foreign policy, about economy in a globalized and interconnected world.

(MORE: TIME’s Cover Story “Not Legal, Not Leaving”)

I was born in the Philippines, a former American territory, and moved to the U.S. when I was 12. I found out that I was undocumented — that I didn’t have the proper documents — after trying to get a driver’s license at age 16. A year later, my high school sophomore-English teacher said I was asking too many questions and “should try this thing called journalism.” I was hooked, partly because seeing my byline, my name on a piece of paper, validated my existence in a way my fake green card and fake passport that my grandfather bought to smuggle me into America did not. When I got older, my grandfather’s lies became my lies. For more than a decade, I lied about my immigration status so I could get jobs, pay taxes and provide for myself and my family. But the lies stopped — they had to. Like countless other undocumented people, particularly young ones who’ve grown up in the U.S. and call this country our home, I outed myself to be seen as a human being who is more than my immigration status.

Don’t all human beings deserve to be reported on fairly and accurately?

(PHOTOS: Harvesting Labor Rights: Chavez’s UFW At 50)

Arguably, we are already undergoing a mass  extinction event. #1#If you look at the short timescale human civilization has existed from a geological perspective, thousands of species have already gone extinct or been driven out of their principle ranges in what is basically an instant.#1# This is known as the holocene extinction

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction

Now, it seems you are holding the human species itself is going to go extinct and quite possible most life on earth. I find this to be pretty unlikely. Humans are, bar none, the most adaptable vertebrates to ever exist. Some of us routinely live in areas that we have no business living in such as in Antarctica or thousands of feet below the arctic ice sheets. Even the most extreme projections of climate change that project the earth being reduced to Mars would be unlikely to happen quickly enough for human to not be able to find an engineering solution to keep (some of) ourselves and probably a significant portion of the genetic diversity on the planet around. Society as we know it might collapse in this extreme example, but the future of human civilization or the hope of a renewed ecological system on the planet won't necessarily be gone. 

That being said, I don't think the Earth will ever get that bad. As it stands, even with what may seem to be advances that are "too slow" to many people, humans civilization is actually quite concerned about the environment, and have taken enormous steps in the past 20 years in terms of advancing technologies that would enable a sustainable society. Even people who completely deny climate change don't generally have a huge problem with building sustainable energy systems or societal practices especially when they become economically competitive with fossil fuels. I have seen many people myself whose views on climate change and renewable energy and practices have warmed over the past decade. 

And in the case of a nuclear war, I don't think a large scale nuclear conflict would actually lead to extinction of life or even even human civilization. Already, many thousands of nukes have been detonated. Only a couple thousand more could be added to that list in terms of a total nuclear war. Most of those would be airbursted over cities which would significantly limits fallout effects (and maximize destruction). The overall amount of debris would be much, much less than say the K-T extinction event and maybe comparable to certain volcanic explosions, all of which life has managed to persevere through. It would be quite bad, and may render certain areas unlivable at its worst, but probably won't threaten overall life on earth.

Edit: Also, it seems you are concerned about our food base just dying off. That is certainly a danger, but I think it is very likely that humans develop a reliable way of turning inorganic carbon/water into food at a large scale within a hundred years and probably less. All the chemistry is there to make that possible. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction
HOLOCENE EXTINCTION
#1#The Holocene extinction, otherwise referred to as the Sixth extinction or Anthropocene extinction, is the ongoing extinction event of species during the present Holocene epoch, mainly due to human activity.#1#[1] The large number of extinctions spans numerous families of plants and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods. With widespread degradation of highly biodiverse habitats such as coral reefs and rainforest, as well as other areas, the vast majority of these extinctions is thought to be undocumented. The current rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than natural background rates.

The Holocene extinction includes the disappearance of large land animals known as megafauna, starting at the end of the last Ice Age. Megafauna outside of the African continent, which did not evolve alongside humans, proved highly sensitive to the introduction of new predation, and many died out shortly after early humans began spreading and hunting across the Earth (additionally, many African species have also gone extinct in the Holocene). These extinctions, occurring near the Pleistocene–Holocene boundary, are sometimes referred to as the Quaternary extinction event.

The arrival of humans on different continents coincides with megafaunal extinction. The most popular theory is that human overhunting of species added to existing stress conditions. Although there is debate regarding how much human predation affected their decline, certain population declines have been directly correlated with human activity, such as the extinction events of New Zealand and Hawaii. Aside from humans, climate change may have been a driving factor in the megafaunal extinctions, especially at the end of the Pleistocene.

The ecology of humanity has been noted as being that of an unprecedented "global superpredator" that regularly preys on the adults of other apex predators and has worldwide effects on food webs. Extinctions of species have occurred on every land mass and ocean, with many famous examples within Africa, Asia, Europe, Australia, North and South America, and on smaller islands. Overall, the Holocene extinction can be characterized by the human impact on the environment. The Holocene extinction continues into the 21st century, with meat consumption, overfishing, ocean acidification and the amphibian crisis being a few broader examples of an almost universal, cosmopolitan decline in biodiversity. Human overpopulation (and continued population growth) along with profligate consumption are considered to be the primary drivers of this rapid decline.[2][3]

Definitions [ edit ]

The Holocene extinction is also known as the "sixth extinction", due to its possibly being the sixth mass extinct event, after the Ordovician–Silurian extinction events, the Late Devonian extinction, the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, and the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.[4][5][6][7][2][1] There is no general agreement on where the Holocene, or anthropogenic, extinction begins, and the Quaternary extinction event, which includes climate change resulting in the end of the last ice age, ends, or if they should be considered separate events at all.[8][9] Some have suggested that anthropogenic extinctions may have begun as early as when the first modern humans spread out of Africa between 100,000 and 200,000 years ago, which is supported by rapid megafaunal extinction following recent human colonisation in Australia, New Zealand and Madagascar,[4] in a similar way that any large, adaptable predator moving into a new ecosystem would. In many cases, it is suggested even minimal hunting pressure was enough to wipe out large fauna, particularly on geographically isolated islands.[10][11] Only during the most recent parts of the extinction have plants also suffered large losses.[12]

In The Future of Life (2002), E.O. Wilson of Harvard calculated that, if the current rate of human disruption of the biosphere continues, one-half of Earth's higher lifeforms will be extinct by 2100. A 1998 poll conducted by the American Museum of Natural History found that seventy percent of biologists acknowledge the existence of the anthropogenic extinction.[13] Numerous scientific studies — such as a 2004 report published in Nature,[14] and papers authored by the IUCN's annual Red List of threatened species — have since reinforced this conviction. At present, the rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than the "base" or historically typical rate of extinction (in terms of the natural evolution of the planet)[15][16][17] and also the current rate of extinction is, therefore, 10 to 100 times higher than any of the previous mass extinctions in the history of Earth. One scientist estimates the current extinction rate may be 10,000 times the background extinction rate. Nevertheless, most scientists predict a much lower extinction rate than this outlying estimate.[18] Stuart Pimm stated "the current rate of species extinction is about 100 times the natural rate" for plants.[19] Mass extinctions are characterized by the loss of at least 75% of species within a geologically short period of time.[20][21][22]

In a pair of studies published in 2015, extrapolation from observed extinction of Hawaiian snails led to the conclusion that 7% of all species on Earth may have been lost already.[23][24]

While there is widespread consensus in the scientific community that human activity is accelerating the extinction of many animal species through the destruction of wild lands, the consumption of animals as resources or luxuries, and the persecution of species that humans view as threats or competitors,[25] some contend that this biotic destruction has yet to rise to the level of the previous five mass extinctions. Stuart Pimm, for example, asserts that the sixth mass extinction "is something that hasn’t happened yet – we are on the edge of it."[26] In November 2017, a statement by 15,364 scientists from 184 countries asserted that, among other things, "we have unleashed a mass extinction event, the sixth in roughly 540 million years, wherein many current life forms could be annihilated or at least committed to extinction by the end of this century."[1]

Anthropocene [ edit ]

A diagram showing the ecological processes of coral reefs before and after the Anthropocene

The abundance of species extinctions considered anthropogenic, or due to human activity, have sometimes (especially when referring to hypothesized future events) been collectively called the "Anthropocene extinction".[27][28][25] "Anthropocene" is a term introduced in 2000. It is now posited by some that a new geological epoch has begun, characterised by the most abrupt and widespread extinction of species since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event 66 million years ago.[4]

The term "anthropocene" is being used more frequently by scientists, and some commentators may refer to the current and projected future extinctions as part of a longer Holocene extinction.[29][30] The Holocene–Anthropocene boundary is contested, with some commentators asserting significant human influence on climate for much of what is normally regarded as the Holocene Epoch.[31] Other commentators place the Holocene–Anthropocene boundary at the industrial revolution while also saying that, "[f]ormal adoption of this term in the near future will largely depend on its utility, particularly to earth scientists working on late Holocene successions."

It has been suggested that human activity has made the period following the mid-20th century different enough from the rest of the Holocene to consider it a new geological epoch, known as the Anthropocene,[32] which was considered for implementation into the timeline of Earth's history by the International Commission on Stratigraphy in 2016.[33][34] In order to constitute the Holocene as an extinction event, scientists must determine exactly when anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions began to measurably alter natural atmospheric levels at a global scale and when these alterations caused changes to global climate. Employing chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, researchers have estimated the fluctuations of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and methane gases (CH 4 ) in the earth’s atmosphere for the late Pleistocene and Holocene epochs.[31] Based on studies that estimated fluctuations of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere using chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, general argumentation of when the peak of the Anthropocene occurred pertains to the timeframe within the previous two centuries; typically beginning with the Industrial Revolution, when greenhouse gas levels were recorded by contemporary methods at its highest.[35][36]

Influences [ edit ]

Competition by humans [ edit ]

The percent of megafauna on different land masses over time, with the arrival of humans indicated.

The Holocene extinction is mainly caused by human activity.[5][6][25][7][2] Extinction of animals, plants, and other organisms caused by human actions may go as far back as the late Pleistocene, over 12,000 years ago.[25] There is a correlation between megafaunal extinction and the arrival of humans, and human overpopulation and human population growth, along with overconsumption and consumption growth, most prominently in the past two centuries, are regarded as one of the underlying causes of extinction.[5][37][2][3][38]

Megafauna were once found on every continent of the world and large islands such as New Zealand and Madagascar, but are now almost exclusively found on the continent of Africa, with notable comparisons on Australia and the islands previously mentioned experiencing population crashes and trophic cascades shortly after the earliest human settlers.[10][11] It has been suggested that the African megafauna survived because they evolved alongside humans.[4] The timing of South American megafaunal extinction appears to precede human arrival, although the possibility that human activity at the time impacted the global climate enough to cause such an extinction has been suggested.[4]

It has been noted, in the face of such evidence, that humans are unique in ecology as an unprecedented 'global superpredator', regularly preying on large numbers of fully grown terrestrial and marine apex predators, and with a great deal of influence over food webs and climatic systems worldwide.[39] Although significant debate exists as to how much human predation and indirect effects contributed to prehistoric extinctions, certain population crashes have been directly correlated with human arrival.[9][4][25]

Agriculture [ edit ]

Human civilization flourished in accordance to the efficiency and intensification of prevailing subsistence systems.[40] Local communities that acquire more subsistence strategies increased in number to combat competitive pressures of land utilization.[31][40] Therefore, the Holocene developed competition on the basis of agriculture. The growth of agriculture has then introduced newer means of climate change, pollution, and ecological development.[41]

Habitat destruction by humans, including oceanic devastation, such as through overfishing and contamination; and the modification and destruction of vast tracts of land and river systems around the world to meet solely human-centered ends (with 13 percent of Earth's ice-free land surface now used as row-crop agricultural sites, 26 percent used as pastures, and 4 percent urban-industrial areas[43]), thus replacing the original local ecosystems.[44] Other, related human causes of the extinction event include deforestation, hunting, pollution,[45] the introduction in various regions of non-native species, and the widespread transmission of infectious diseases spread through livestock and crops.[16]

Recent investigations about hunter-gatherer landscape burning has a major implication for the current debate about the timing of the Anthropocene and the role that humans may have played in the production of greenhouse gases prior to the Industrial Revolution.[40] Studies on early hunter-gatherers raises questions about the current use of population size or density as a proxy for the amount of land clearance and anthropogenic burning that took place in pre-industrial times.[46][47] Scientists have questioned the correlation between population size and early territorial alterations.[47] Ruddiman and Ellis' research paper in 2009 makes the case that early farmers involved in systems of agriculture used more land per capita than growers later in the Holocene, who intensified their labor to produce more food per unit of area (thus, per laborer); arguing that agricultural involvement in rice production implemented thousands of years ago by relatively small populations have created significant environmental impacts through large-scale means of deforestation.[40]

While a number of human-derived factors are recognized as potentially contributing to rising atmospheric concentrations of CH 4 and CO 2 , deforestation and territorial clearance practices associated with agricultural development may be contributing most to these concentrations globally.[35][48][40] Scientists that are employing a variance of archaeological and paleoecological data argue that the processes contributing to substantial human modification of the environment spanned many thousands of years ago on a global scale and thus, not originating as early as the Industrial Revolution. Gaining popularity on his uncommon hypothesis, palaeoclimatologist William Ruddiman in 2003, stipulated that in the early Holocene 11,000 years ago, atmospheric carbon dioxide and methane levels fluctuated in a pattern which was different from the Pleistocene epoch before it.[31][46][48] He argued that the patterns of the significant decline of CO 2 levels during the last ice age of the Pleistocene inversely correlates to the Holocene where there has been dramatic increases of CO 2 around 8000 years ago and CH 4 levels 3000 years after that.[48] The correlation between the decrease of CO 2 in the Pleistocene and the increase of it during the Holocene implies that the causation of this spark of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere was the growth of human agriculture during the Holocene such as the anthropogenic expansion of (human) land use and irrigation.[31][48]

Islands [ edit ]

Human arrival in the Caribbean around 6,000 years ago is correlated with the extinction of many species.[49] Examples include many different genera of ground and arboreal sloths across all islands. These sloths were generally smaller than those found on the South American continent. Megalocnus were the largest genus at up to 90 kilograms (200 lb), Acratocnus were medium-sized relatives of modern two-toed sloths endemic to Cuba, Imagocnus also of Cuba, Neocnus and many others.[50]

Recent research, based on archaeological and paleontological digs on 70 different Pacific islands has shown that numerous species became extinct as people moved across the Pacific, starting 30,000 years ago in the Bismarck Archipelago and Solomon Islands.[51] It is currently estimated that among the bird species of the Pacific, some 2000 species have gone extinct since the arrival of humans, representing a 20% drop in the biodiversity of birds worldwide.[52]

The first settlers are thought to have arrived in the islands between 300 and 800 CE, with European arrival in the 16th century. Hawaii is notable for its endemism of plants, birds, insects, mollusks and fish; 30% of its organisms are endemic. Many of its species are endangered or have gone extinct, primarily due to accidentally introduced species and livestock grazing. Over 40% of its bird species have gone extinct, and it is the location of 75% of extinctions in the United States.[53] Extinction has increased in Hawaii over the last 200 years and is relatively well documented, with extinctions among native snails used as estimates for global extinction rates.[23]

Australia [ edit ]

Genyornis newtoni, a 2-metre (7 ft) tall flightless bird. Evidence of egg cooking in this species is the first evidence of megafaunal hunting by humans on Australia.[54] , a 2-metre (7 ft) tall flightless bird. Evidence of egg cooking in this species is the first evidence of megafaunal hunting by humans on Australia.

Australia was once home to a large assemblage of megafauna, with many parallels to those found on the African continent today. Australia's fauna is characterised by primarily marsupial mammals, and many reptiles and birds, all existing as giant forms until recently. Humans arrived on the continent very early, about 50,000 years ago.[4] The extent human arrival contributed is controversial; climatic drying of Australia 40,000–60,000 years ago was an unlikely cause, as it was less severe in speed or magnitude than previous regional climate change which failed to kill off megafauna. Extinctions in Australia continued from original settlement until today in both plants and animals, whilst many more animals and plants have declined or are endangered.[55]

Due to the older timeframe and the soil chemistry on the continent, very little subfossil preservation evidence exists relative to elsewhere.[56] However, continent-wide extinction of all genera weighing over 100 kilograms, and six of seven genera weighing between 45 and 100 kilograms occurred around 46,400 years ago (4,000 years after human arrival)[57] and the fact that megafauna survived until a later date on the island of Tasmania following the establishment of a land bridge[58] suggest direct hunting or anthropogenic ecosystem disruption such as fire-stick farming as likely causes. The first evidence of direct human predation leading to extinction in Australia was published in 2016.[54]

Madagascar [ edit ]

Radiocarbon dating of multiple subfossil specimens shows that now extinct giant lemurs were present in Madagascar until after human arrival.

Within 500 years of the arrival of humans between 2,500–2,000 years ago, nearly all of Madagascar's distinct, endemic and geographically isolated megafauna became extinct.[59] The largest animals, of more than 150 kilograms (330 lb), were extinct very shortly after the first human arrival, with large and medium-sized species dying out after prolonged hunting pressure from an expanding human population moving into more remote regions of the island around 1000 years ago. Smaller fauna experienced initial increases due to decreased competition, and then subsequent declines over the last 500 years.[11] All fauna weighing over 10 kilograms (22 lb) died out. The primary reasons for this are human hunting and habitat loss from early aridification, both of which persist and threaten Madagascar's remaining taxa today.[citation needed]

The eight or more species of elephant birds, giant flightless ratites in the genera Aepyornis and Mullerornis, are extinct from over-hunting,[60] as well as 17 species of lemur, known as giant, subfossil lemurs. Some of these lemurs typically weighed over 150 kilograms (330 lb), and fossils have provided evidence of human butchery on many species.[61]

New Zealand [ edit ]

New Zealand is characterised by its geographic isolation and island biogeography, and had been isolated from mainland Australia for 80 million years. It was the last large land mass to be colonised by humans. The arrival of Polynesian settlers circa 12th century resulted in the extinction of all of the islands' megafaunal birds within several hundred years.[62] The last moa, large flightless ratites, became extinct within 200 years of the arrival of human settlers.[10] The Polynesians also introduced the Polynesian rat. This may have put some pressure on other birds but at the time of early European contact (18th Century) and colonisation (19th Century) the bird life was prolific. With them, the Europeans brought ship rats, possums, cats and mustelids which decimated native bird life, some of which had adapted flightlessness and ground nesting habits and others had no defensive behavior as a result of having no extant endemic mammalian predators. The kakapo, the world's biggest parrot, which is flightless, now only exists in managed breeding sanctuaries and NZ's national emblem, the kiwi, is on the endangered bird list.[62]

Americas [ edit ]

The passenger pigeon was a species of pigeon endemic to North America . It experienced a rapid decline in the late 1800s due to intense hunting after the arrival of Europeans. The last wild bird is thought to have been shot in 1901.

There has been a debate as to the extent to which the disappearance of megafauna at the end of the last glacial period can be attributed to human activities by hunting, or even by slaughter[63] of prey populations. Discoveries at Monte Verde in South America and at Meadowcroft Rock Shelter in Pennsylvania have caused a controversy[64] regarding the Clovis culture. There likely would have been human settlements prior to the Clovis Culture, and the history of humans in the Americas may extend back many thousands of years before the Clovis culture.[64] The amount of correlation between human arrival and megafauna extinction is still being debated: for example, in Wrangel Island in Siberia the extinction of dwarf woolly mammoths (approximately 2000 BCE)[65] did not coincide with the arrival of humans, nor did megafaunal mass extinction on the South American continent, although it has been suggested climate changes induced by anthropogenic effects elsewhere in the world may have contributed.[4]

Comparisons are sometimes made between recent extinctions (approximately since the industrial revolution) and the Pleistocene extinction near the end of the last glacial period. The latter is exemplified by the extinction of large herbivores such as the woolly mammoth and the carnivores that preyed on them. Humans of this era actively hunted the mammoth and the mastodon[66] but it is not known if this hunting was the cause of the subsequent massive ecological changes, widespread extinctions and climate changes.[8][9]

The ecosystems encountered by the first Americans had not been exposed to human interaction, and may have been far less resilient to human made changes than the ecosystems encountered by industrial era humans. Therefore, the actions of the Clovis people, despite seeming insignificant by today's standards could indeed have had a profound effect on the ecosystems and wild life which was entirely unused to human influence.[4]

Afroeurasia [ edit ]

Africa experienced the smallest decline in megafauna compared to the other continents. This is presumably due to the idea that Afroeurasian megafauna evolved alongside humans, and thus developed a healthy fear of them, unlike the comparatively tame animals of other continents.[67] Unlike other continents, the megafauna of Eurasia went extinct over a relatively long period of time, possibly due to climate fluctuations fragmenting and decreasing populations, leaving them vulnerable to over-exploitation, as with the steppe bison (Bison priscus).[68] The warming of the arctic region caused the rapid decline of grasslands, which had a negative effect on the grazing megafauna of Eurasia. Most of what once was mammoth steppe has been converted to mire, rendering the environment incapable of supporting them, notably the woolly mammoth.[69]

Climate change [ edit ]

Top: Middle: Bottom: Potential vegetation in climate now if not for human effects like agriculture.[70] Arid ice age climate Atlantic Period , warm and wetPotential vegetation in climate now if not for human effects like agriculture.

One of the main theories to the extinction is climate change. The climate change theory has suggested that a change in climate near the end of the late Pleistocene stressed the megafauna to the point of extinction.[29][71] Some scientists favor abrupt climate change as the catalyst for the extinction of the mega-fauna at the end of the Pleistocene, but there are many who believe increased hunting from early modern humans also played a part, with others even suggesting that the two interacted.[4][72][73] However, the annual mean temperature of the current interglacial period for the last 10,000 years is no higher than that of previous interglacial periods, yet some of the same megafauna survived similar temperature increases.[74][75][76][77][78][79] In the Americas, a controversial explanation for the shift in climate is presented under the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, which states that the impact of comets cooled global temperatures.[80][81][82]

Megafaunal extinction [ edit ]

Megafauna play a significant role in the lateral transport of mineral nutrients in an ecosystem, tending to translocate them from areas of high to those of lower abundance. They do so by their movement between the time they consume the nutrient and the time they release it through elimination (or, to a much lesser extent, through decomposition after death).[83] In South America's Amazon Basin, it is estimated that such lateral diffusion was reduced over 98% following the megafaunal extinctions that occurred roughly 12,500 years ago.[84][85] Given that phosphorus availability is thought to limit productivity in much of the region, the decrease in its transport from the western part of the basin and from floodplains (both of which derive their supply from the uplift of the Andes) to other areas is thought to have significantly impacted the region's ecology, and the effects may not yet have reached their limits.[85] The extinction of the mammoths allowed grasslands they had maintained through grazing habits to become birch forests.[8] The new forest and the resulting forest fires may have induced climate change.[8] Such disappearances might be the result of the proliferation of modern humans; some recent studies favor this theory.[25][86]

Large populations of megaherbivores have the potential to contribute greatly to the atmospheric concentration of methane, which is an important greenhouse gas. Modern ruminant herbivores produce methane as a byproduct of foregut fermentation in digestion, and release it through belching or flatulence. Today, around 20% of annual methane emissions come from livestock methane release. In the Mesozoic, it has been estimated that sauropods could have emitted 520 million tons of methane to the atmosphere annually,[87] contributing to the warmer climate of the time (up to 10 °C warmer than at present).[87][88] This large emission follows from the enormous estimated biomass of sauropods, and because methane production of individual herbivores is believed to be almost proportional to their mass.[87]

Recent studies have indicated that the extinction of megafaunal herbivores may have caused a reduction in atmospheric methane. This hypothesis is relatively new.[89] One study examined the methane emissions from the bison that occupied the Great Plains of North America before contact with European settlers. The study estimated that the removal of the bison caused a decrease of as much as 2.2 million tons per year.[90] Another study examined the change in the methane concentration in the atmosphere at the end of the Pleistocene epoch after the extinction of megafauna in the Americas. After early humans migrated to the Americas about 13,000 BP, their hunting and other associated ecological impacts led to the extinction of many megafaunal species there. Calculations suggest that this extinction decreased methane production by about 9.6 million tons per year. This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas.[89] The decrease in atmospheric methane that occurred at that time, as recorded in ice cores, was 2–4 times more rapid than any other decrease in the last half million years, suggesting that an unusual mechanism was at work.[89]

Disease [ edit ]

The hyperdisease hypothesis, proposed by Ross MacPhee in 1997, states that the megafaunal die-off was due to an indirect transmission of diseases by newly arriving aboriginal humans.[91][92][93] According to MacPhee, aboriginals or animals travelling with them, such as domestic dogs or livestock, introduced one or more highly virulent diseases into new environments whose native population had no immunity to them, eventually leading to their extinction. K-selection animals, such as the now-extinct megafauna, are especially vulnerable to diseases, as opposed to r-selection animals who have a shorter gestation period and a higher population size. Humans are thought to be the sole cause as other earlier migrations of animals into North America from Eurasia did not cause extinctions.[91]

There are many problems with this theory in the scientific community, as this disease would have to meet several criteria: it has to be able to sustain itself in an environment with no hosts; it has to have a high infection rate; and be extremely lethal, with a mortality rate of 50–75%. Disease has to be very virulent to kill off all the individuals in a genus or species, and even such a virulent disease as West Nile Virus is unlikely to have caused extinction.[94]

However, diseases have been the cause for some extinctions. The introduction of avian malaria and avipoxvirus, for example, have had a negative impact on the endemic birds of Hawaii.[95]

Defaunation [ edit ]

[96] The golden toad of Costa Rica, extinct since around 1989. Its disappearance has been attributed to a confluence of several factors, including El Niño warming, fungus, habitat loss and the introduction of invasive species.

[97] There are roughly 880 mountain gorillas remaining in existence. 60% of primate species face an anthropogenically driven extinction crisis and 75% have declining populations.

The loss of species from ecological communities, defaunation, is primarily driven by human activity.[6] This has resulted in empty forests, ecological communities depleted of large vertebrates.[100][25] This is not to be confused with extinction, as it includes both the disappearance of species and declines in abundance.[101] Defaunation effects were first implied at the Symposium of Plant-Animal Interactions at the University of Campinas, Brazil in 1988 in the context of neotropical forests.[102] Since then, the term has gained broader usage in conservation biology as a global phenomenon.[103][102]

Big cat populations have severely declined over the last half-century and could face extinction in the following decades. According to IUCN estimates: lions are down to 25,000, from 450,000; leopards are down to 50,000, from 750,000; cheetahs are down to 12,000, from 45,000; tigers are down to 3,000 in the wild, from 50,000.[104] A December 2016 study by the Zoological Society of London, Panthera Corporation and Wildlife Conservation Society showed that cheetahs are far closer to extinction than previously thought, with only 7,100 remaining in the wild, and crammed within only 9% of their historic range.[105] Human pressures are to blame for the cheetah population crash, including prey loss due to overhunting by people, retaliatory killing from farmers, habitat loss and the illegal wildlife trade.[106]

“ We are seeing the effects of 7 billion people on the planet. At present rates, we will lose the big cats in 10 to 15 years. ” — Naturalist Dereck Joubert, co-founder of the National Geographic Big Cats Initiative[104]

The term pollinator decline refers to the reduction in abundance of insect and other animal pollinators in many ecosystems worldwide beginning at the end of the twentieth century, and continuing into the present day.[107] Pollinators, which are necessary for 75% of food crops, are declining globally in both abundance and diversity.[108] A 2017 study led by Radboud University's Hans de Kroon indicated that the biomass of insect life in Germany had declined by three-quarters in the previous 25 years. Participating researcher Dave Goulson of Sussex University stated that their study suggested that humans are making large parts of the planet uninhabitable for wildlife. Goulson characterized the situation as an approaching "ecological Armageddon", adding that "if we lose the insects then everything is going to collapse."[109]

“ We have driven the rate of biological extinction, the permanent loss of species, up several hundred times beyond its historical levels, and are threatened with the loss of a majority of all species by the end of the 21st century. ” — Peter Raven, former president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), in the foreword to their publication AAAS Atlas of Population and Environment[110]

Various species are predicted to become extinct in the near future,[111] among them the rhinoceros,[112] primates,[97] pangolins,[113] and giraffes.[114][115] Hunting alone threatens bird and mammalian populations around the world.[116][117][118] Some scientists and academics assert that industrial agriculture and the growing demand for meat is contributing to significant global biodiversity loss as this is a significant driver of deforestation and habitat destruction; species-rich habitats, such as significant portions of the Amazon region, are being converted to agriculture for meat production.[7][119][120][121] A 2017 study by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) found that 60% of biodiversity loss can be attributed to the vast scale of feed crop cultivation required to rear tens of billions of farm animals.[122] Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, Livestock's Long Shadow, also found that the livestock sector is a "leading player" in biodiversity loss.[123] According to the WWF's 2016 Living Planet Index, global wildlife populations have declined 58% since 1970, primarily due to habitat destruction, over-hunting and pollution. They project that if current trends continue, 67% of wildlife could disappear by 2020.[124][125] 189 countries, which are signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio Accord),[126] have committed to preparing a Biodiversity Action Plan, a first step at identifying specific endangered species and habitats, country by country.[127]

“ For the first time since the demise of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago, we face a global mass extinction of wildlife. We ignore the decline of other species at our peril – for they are the barometer that reveals our impact on the world that sustains us. ” — Mike Barrett, director of science and policy at WWF's UK branch[128]

Recent extinction [ edit ]

Recent extinctions are more directly attributable to human influences, whereas prehistoric extinctions can be attributed to other factors, such as global climate change.[5][6] The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) characterises 'recent' extinction as those that have occurred past the cut-off point of 1500,[129] and at least 875 species have gone extinct since that time and 2012.[130] Some species, such as the Père David's deer[131] and the Hawaiian crow,[132] are extinct in the wild, and survive solely in captive populations. Other species, such as the Florida panther, are ecologically extinct, surviving in such low numbers that that they essentially have no impact on the ecosystem.[133]:318 Other populations are only locally extinct (extirpated), still existence elsewhere, but reduced in distribution,[133]:75–77 as with the extinction of gray whales in the Atlantic,[134] and of the leatherback sea turtle in Malaysia.[135]

Habitat destruction [ edit ]

Global warming is widely accepted as being a contributor to extinction worldwide, in a similar way that previous extinction events have generally included a rapid change in global climate and meteorology. It is also expected to disrupt sex ratios in many reptiles which have temperature-dependent sex determination.

The removal of land to clear way for palm oil plantations releases carbon emissions held in the peatlands of Indonesia.[138][139] Palm oil mainly serves as a cheap cooking oil,[140] and also as a (controversial) biofuel. However, damage to peatland contributes to 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and 8% of those caused by burning fossil fuels.[141] Palm oil cultivation has also been criticized for other impacts to the environment,[142][143] including deforestation,[144] which has threatened critically endangered species such as the orangutan.[145][146] The IUCN stated in 2016 that the species could go extinct within a decade if measures are not taken to preserve the rainforests in which they live.[147] Tree-kangaroos are also threatened with extinction as the result of palm oil deforestation.[148]

Rising levels of carbon dioxide are resulting in influx of this gas into the ocean, increasing its acidity. Marine organisms which possess Calcium Carbonate shells or exoskeletons experience physiological pressure as the carbonate reacts with acid. This is already resulting in coral bleaching on various coral reefs worldwide, which provide valuable habitat for very high biodiversity. Marine gastropods, bivalves and other invertebrates are also affected, as are any organisms that feed on them.

Some researchers suggest that by 2050 there could be more plastic than fish in the oceans by weight.[38]

Overexploitation [ edit ]

[149] The species could be extinct by autumn of 2017, according to WWF conservationists.[150] The Vaquita , the world's most endangered marine mammal, has been reduced to only 30 individuals as of February 2017. They are often killed by commercial fishing nets.The species could be extinct by autumn of 2017, according to WWF conservationists.

Overhunting can reduce the local population of game animals by more than half, as well as reducing population density, and may lead to extinction for some species.[151] Populations located nearer to villages are significantly more at risk of depletion.[152][153]

The surge in the mass killings by poachers involved in the illegal ivory trade along with habitat loss is threatening African elephant populations.[154][155] In 1979, their populations stood at 1.7 million; at present there are fewer than 400,000 remaining.[156] Prior to European colonization, scientists believe Africa was home to roughly 20 million elephants.[157] According to the Great Elephant Census, 30% of African elephants (or 144,000 individuals) disappeared over a seven-year period, 2007 to 2014.[155][158] African elephants could become extinct by 2035 if poaching rates continue.[115]

The collapse of Atlantic cod off the coast of Newfoundland in 1992 as a result of overfishing . The population never recovered, completely altering the ecosystem and rendering the species locally extinct

Fishing has had a devastating effect on marine organism populations for several centuries even before the explosion of destructive and highly effective fishing practices like trawling.[159] Humans are unique among predators in that they regularly predate on other adult apex predators, particularly in marine environments;[39] bluefin tuna, blue whales, and various sharks in particular are particularly vulnerable to predation pressure from human fishing. A 2016 study published in Science concludes that humans tend to hunt larger species, and this could disrupt ocean ecosystems for millions of years.[160]

“ If this pattern goes unchecked, the future oceans would lack many of the largest species in today’s oceans. Many large species play critical roles in ecosystems and so their extinctions could lead to ecological cascades that would influence the structure and function of future ecosystems beyond the simple fact of losing those species. ” — Jonathan Payne, associate professor and chair of geological sciences at Stanford University[161]

Disease [ edit ]

The decline of amphibian populations has also been identified as an indicator of environmental degradation. As well as habitat loss, introduced predators and pollution, Chytridiomycosis, a fungal infection thought to have been accidentally spread by human travel,[4] has caused severe population drops of several species of frogs, including (among many others) the extinction of the golden toad in Costa Rica and the Gastric-brooding frog in Australia. Many other amphibian species now face extinction, including the reduction of Rabb's fringe-limbed treefrog to an endling, and the extinction of the Panamanian golden frog in the wild. Chytrid fungus has spread across Australia, New Zealand, Central America and Africa, including countries with high amphibian diversity such as cloud forests in Honduras and Madagascar. Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans is a similar infection currently threatening salamanders. Amphibians are now the most endangered vertebrate group, having existed for more than 300 million years through three other mass extinctions.[4]:17

Millions of bats in the US have been dying off since 2012 due to a fungal infection spread from European bats, which appear to be immune. Population drops have been as great as 90% within five years, and extinction of at least one bat species is predicted. There is currently no form of treatment, and such declines have been described as "unprecedented" in bat evolutionary history by Alan Hicks of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.[citation needed]

See also [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

Actually, human civilization is becoming increasingly concerned with global warming at a surprising rate. According to [this article](http://climatecommunication.yale.edu/publications/republican-views-on-climate-change/), #1#more than half of surveyed Republicans and Republican-leaning independents believe climate change is real and would take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions#1#. I looked at a lot of similar articles/studies, and the numbers range from slightly less than 50% to over 70%. Even the biggest skeptics of global warming are changing their tune.



http://climatecommunication.yale.edu/publications/republican-views-on-climate-change/
YALE PROGRAM ON CLIMATE CHANGE COMMUNICATION
Home / Publications / A National Survey of Republicans and Republican–Leaning Independents on Energy and Climate Change

Report · Apr 2, 2013 A National Survey of Republicans and Republican–Leaning Independents on Energy and Climate Change Report Summary This report contains topline results of a national survey of 726 adults who recently identified as a Republican or a Republican-leaning Independent. Highlights: #1#A majority of respondents (52%) believe climate change is happening#1#, while 26 percent believe it is not, and 22 percent say they “don’t know.”

A large majority (77%) says the United States should use more renewable energy sources (solar, wind & geothermal) in the future. Among those who support expanded use of renewable energy, nearly 7 out of 10 think the U.S. should increase the use of renewable energy “immediately”.

Republicans and Republican-leaning Independents prefer clean energy as the basis of America’s energy future and say the benefits of clean energy, such as energy independence (66%), saving resources for our children and grandchildren (57%), and providing a better life for our children and grandchildren (56%) outweigh the costs, such as more government regulation (42%) or higher energy prices (31%).

By a margin of 2 to 1, respondents say America should take action to reduce our fossil fuel use.

Only one third of respondents agree with the Republican Party’s position on climate change, while about half agree with the party’s position on how to meet America’s energy needs.

A large majority of respondents say their elected representatives are unresponsive to their views about climate change. Download as PDF Download the Report Download Full Report PDF Document Project Climate Change in the American Mind

>I don't see any basis for thinking we will be able to do things like that in time.

What?  You don't think we are developing technology that can be used to overcome a warming climate and limited biodiversity?  #1#[Here's one tech that would probably go a long way to helping us in the event of a mass extinction]#1#(https://www.fastcoexist.com/3044572/the-325000-lab-grown-hamburger-now-costs-less-than-12)  

We don't need a consensus in order to start developing the tech.  We just need some companies who see that profit could be made.  Giant companies can afford to have long lead time products and also products that may never make a profit.

This tech also overlaps greatly with tech for living on Mars and we're currently developing tech for that.

>It isn't that we're not moving fast enough; it's that we're moving very fast in the wrong direction with no signs of slowing.

This just isn't true.  Technology isn't going backwards.  Even if we are destroying are planet, technology is always moving forward and we are constantly developing new stuff.  Who knows what will be important when a mass extinction event comes, but I can imagine that tech that we already have and that we are developing for other purposes (like say Algae growth for biofuels) could come in handy in the event of mass extinction.



https://www.fastcoexist.com/3044572/the-325000-lab-grown-hamburger-now-costs-less-than-12
THE $325,000 LAB-GROWN HAMBURGER NOW COSTS LESS THAN $12
#1#The artificial burger that you–or your science-fiction-loving friends–have been waiting for is real.#1# And now it’s cheap, too.

It wasn’t long ago that test-tube hamburgers–meat made from small pieces of lab-grown animal muscle tissue–were just a glimmer in some mad scientist’s eye. Then, in 2013, the dream of an artificial burger suddenly got interesting. That’s when Mark Post, a researcher at Maastricht University in the Netherlands, announced that he had created a burger made from real meat grown in a lab (20,000 strips of muscle tissue, to be exact) for the unreasonable price of $325,000. Now that price has dropped to just over $11 for a burger ($80 per kilogram of meat), according to a recent ABC News interview with Post.

Here’s how Co.Exist described Post’s experiment back in 2013:

Post’s cultured meat creation process goes something like this: myosatellite cells, a kind of stem cell that repairs muscle tissue, are taken from a cow neck and put in containers along with fetal calf serum (the medium, which will eventually switch to a non-animal source). The cells are placed onto gel in a plastic dish, where the calf serum’s nutrients are reduced, triggering the cells to go into starvation mode and split into muscle cells. Those cells eventually merge into muscle fibers called myotubes and start synthesizing protein. The end product is a tissue strip, described by the New York Times as “something like a short pink rice noodle.”

It hardly sounds appetizing, and, according to those who tried the burger back when it was first announced, it still had a ways to go in the flavor department. But it wasn’t terrible.

While the price of the burger has dropped to almost-reasonable prices, Post told ABC that it will still be another 20 to 30 years before it’s commercially viable. Among the hurdles still left to overcome: figuring out how to produce test-tube meat at scale, and coming up with a way to produce it that doesn’t use fetal calf serum (currently, cells are grown in the serum, which is taken from cow fetus blood).

And, of course, there’s the biggest hurdle of all: convincing people to eat lab-grown meat.

This is nothing new.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/eric-zuesse/why-hillary-clinton-shoul_b_4293469.html

#1#This is written by huffington post, left wing horribly, in 2013, and clearly states hillary's corruption is well known.#1#

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVS8-1KwS2c this is Obama talking about Hillary taking in money from the rich in 2008, comparing it to now.

Her being corrupt isn't new, it's who she has been pretty much her entire career.

There is nothing new here outside any new scandals, her corruption was well known and there is no proof Russia hacked anything.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVS8-1KwS2c
YOUTUBE
For the house. On the house.

Loading...

Treat the fam to 1 free month of YouTube Red. Ad-free music for up to 6 household accounts.

Depends on your voting method. #1#Some methods would award it to large parties, some to smaller ones.#1#

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Hondt_method




https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Hondt_method
D'HONDT METHOD
#1#The D'Hondt method[a] or the Jefferson method is a highest averages method for allocating seats#1#, and is thus a type of party-list proportional representation. The method described is named in United States after Thomas Jefferson, who introduced the method for proportional allocation of seats in the United States House of Representatives in 1791, and in Europe after Belgian mathematician Victor D'Hondt, who described it in 1878 for proportional allocation of parliamentary seats to the parties. There are two forms: closed list (a party selects the order of election of their candidates) and an open list (voters' choices determine the order).

Proportional representation systems aim to allocate seats to parties approximately in proportion to the number of votes received. For example, if a party wins one-third of the votes then it should gain about one-third of the seats. In general, exact proportionality is not possible because these divisions produce fractional numbers of seats. As a result, several methods, of which the D'Hondt method is one, have been devised which ensure that the parties' seat allocations, which are of course whole numbers, are as proportional as possible.[1] In comparison with the Sainte-Laguë method, D'Hondt slightly favours large parties and coalitions over scattered small parties.[2][3][4][5]

Legislatures using this system include those of Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, East Timor, Ecuador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Kosovo, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Scotland, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, Uruguay, and Wales.

The system has also been used for the "top-up" seats in the London Assembly; in some countries for elections to the European Parliament; and during the 1997 Constitution era to allocate party-list parliamentary seats in Thailand.[6] A modified form was used for elections in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, but this was abandoned in favour of the Hare-Clark system. The system is also used in practice for the allocation between political groups of a large number of posts (Vice Presidents, committee chairmen and vice-chairmen, delegation chairmen and vice-chairmen) in the European Parliament and for the allocation of ministers in the Northern Ireland Assembly.[7]

Allocation [ edit ]

After all the votes have been tallied, successive quotients are calculated for each party. The formula for the quotient is[8][1]

quot = V s + 1 {\displaystyle {\text{quot}}={\frac {V}{s+1}}}

where:

V is the total number of votes that party received, and

is the total number of votes that party received, and s is the number of seats that party has been allocated so far, initially 0 for all parties.

The total votes cast for each party in the electoral district is divided, first by 1, then by 2, then 3, up to the total number of seats to be allocated for the district/constituency. Say there are p parties and s seats. Then a grid of numbers can be created, with p rows and s columns, where the entry in the ith row and jth column is the number of votes won by the ith party, divided by j. The s winning entries are the s highest numbers in the whole grid; each party is given as many seats as there are winning entries in its row.

Example [ edit ]

In this example, 230,000 voters decide the disposition of 8 seats among 4 parties. Since 8 seats are to be allocated, each party's total votes is divided by 1, then by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. The 8 highest entries, marked with asterisks, range from 100,000 down to 25,000. For each, the corresponding party gets a seat.

For comparison, the "Proportionate seats" column shows the exact fractional numbers of seats due, calculated in proportion to the number of votes received. (For example, 100,000/230,000 × 8 = 3.48) The slight favouring of the largest party over the smallest is apparent.

Denominator 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Seats

won (*) Proportionate

seats Party A 100,000* 50,000* 33,333* 25,000* 20,000 16,666 14,286 12,500 4 3.4 Party B 80,000* 40,000* 26,666* 20,000 16,000 13,333 11,428 10,000 3 2.8 Party C 30,000* 15,000 10,000 7,500 6,000 5,000 4,286 3,750 1 1.1 Party D 20,000 10,000 6,666 5,000 4,000 3,333 2,857 2,500 0 0.7

Jefferson and D'Hondt [ edit ]

The Jefferson and the D'Hondt methods are equivalent. They always give the same results, but the methods of presenting the calculation are different. The U.S. statesman and future President Thomas Jefferson devised the method in 1792 for the U.S. congressional apportionment pursuant to the First United States Census. It was used to achieve the proportional distribution of seats in the House of Representatives among the states until 1842.[9]

Victor D'Hondt presented his method in his publication 'Système pratique et raisonné de représentation proportionnelle', published in Brussels in 1882.

The system can be used both for distributing seats in a legislature among states pursuant to populations or among parties pursuant to an election result. The tasks are mathematically equivalent, putting states in the place of parties and population in place of votes. In some countries, the Jefferson system is known by the names of local politicians or experts who introduced them locally. For example, it is known in Israel as the Bader-Ofer system.

Jefferson's method uses a quota (called a divisor), as in the largest remainder method. The divisor is chosen as necessary so that the resulting quotients, disregarding any fractional remainders, sum to the required total; in other words, pick a number so that there is no need to examine the remainders. Any number in one range of quotas will accomplish this, with the highest number in the range always being the same as the lowest number used by the D'Hondt method to award a seat if it is used rather than the Jefferson method, and the lowest number in the range being the next highest number in the D'Hondt calculations plus one.

Applied to the above example of party lists, this range extends as integers from 20,001 to 25,000.

Threshold [ edit ]

In some cases, a threshold or barrage is set, and any list which does not achieve that threshold will not have any seats allocated to it, even if it received enough votes to have otherwise been rewarded with a seat. Examples of countries using the D'Hondt method with a threshold are Albania (3% for single parties, 5% for coalitions of two or more parties, no threshold is applied for independent individuals); Denmark (2%); East Timor, Spain, and Montenegro (3%); Israel (3.25%); Slovenia (4%); Croatia, Romania, and Serbia (5%); Russia (5%); Turkey (10%); Poland (5%, or 8% for coalitions; but does not apply for ethnic-minority parties); Czech Republic (5% for single party, 10% for two-party coalitions, 15% for coalitions of 3 parties, 20% for coalitions of 4 or more parties)[10], Hungary (5% for single party, 10% for two-party coalitions, 15% for coalitions of 3 or more parties) and Belgium (5%, on regional basis). In the Netherlands, a party must win enough votes for one strictly proportional full seat (note that this is not necessary in plain D'Hondt), which with 150 seats in the lower chamber gives an effective threshold of 0.67%. In Estonia, candidates receiving the simple quota in their electoral districts are considered elected, but in the second (district level) and third round of counting (nationwide, modified D'Hondt method) mandates are awarded only to candidate lists receiving more than the threshold of 5% of the votes nationally.

The method can cause a hidden threshold.[11][12] It depends on the number of seats that are allocated with the D'Hondt method. In Finland's parliamentary elections, there is no official threshold, but the effective threshold is gaining one seat. The country is divided into districts with different numbers of representatives, so there is a hidden threshold, different in each district. The largest district, Uusimaa with 33 representatives, has a hidden threshold of 3%, while the smallest district, South Savo with 6 representatives, has a hidden threshold of 14%.[13] This favors large parties in the small districts. In Croatia, the official threshold is 5% for parties and coalitions. However, since the country is divided into 10 voting districts with 14 elected representatives each, sometimes the threshold can be higher, depending on the number of votes of "fallen lists" (lists that don't get at least 5%). If many votes are lost in this manner, a list that gets 5% will still get a seat, whereas if there is a small number votes for parties that don't pass the threshold, the actual ("natural") threshold is close to 7.15%. Some systems allow parties to associate their lists together into a single "cartel" in order to overcome the threshold, while some systems set a separate threshold for such cartels. Smaller parties often form pre-election coalitions to make sure they get past the election threshold. In the Netherlands, cartels (lijstverbindingen) cannot be used to overcome the threshold, but they do influence the distribution of remainder seats; thus, smaller parties can use them to get a chance which is more like that of the big parties.

In French municipal and regional elections, the D'Hondt method is used to attribute a number of council seats; however, a fixed proportion of them (50% for municipal elections, 25% for regional elections) is automatically given to the list with the greatest number of votes, to ensure that it has a working majority: this is called the "majority bonus" (prime à la majorité), and only the remainder of the seats are distributed proportionally (including to the list which has already received the majority bonus). In Italian local elections a similar system is used, where the party or coalition of parties linked to the elected mayor automatically receives 60% of seats; unlike the French model though the remainder of the seats are not distributed again to the largest party.

Variations [ edit ]

The D'Hondt method can also be used in conjunction with a quota formula to allocate most seats, applying the D'Hondt method to allocate any remaining seats to get a result identical to that achieved by the standard D'Hondt formula. This variation is known as the Hagenbach-Bischoff System, and is the formula frequently used when a country's electoral system is referred to simply as 'D'Hondt'.

In the election of Legislative Assembly of Macau, a modified D'Hondt method is used. The formula for the quotient in this system is V 2 s {\displaystyle \textstyle {\frac {V}{2^{s}}}} .

The term "modified D'Hondt" has also been given to the use of the D'Hondt method in the additional member system used for the Scottish Parliament, National Assembly for Wales, and London Assembly, in which after constituency seats have been allocated to parties by first-past-the-post, D'Hondt is applied for the allocation of list seats taking into account for each party the number of constituency seats it has won.

Regional D'Hondt [ edit ]

In most countries, seats for the national assembly are divided on a regional or even a provincial level. This means the D'Hondt method is applied to the total number of votes in each province which then divides up the limited number of seats.[clarification needed] The votes for parties that have not gained a seat at the regional level are thus discarded, so they do not aggregate at a national level. This means that parties which have gained a 5% of the vote nationally may still end up with no seats as they did not gain enough votes in each provincial jurisdiction. This may also lead to skewed seat allocation at a national level, such as in Spain in 2011 where the People's Party gained an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies with only 44% of the national vote.[1]

Notes [ edit ]

^ The name D'Hondt is sometimes spelt as "d'Hondt". For example it is customary in the Netherlands to write such surnames with a lower-case "d" when preceded by the forename: thus Victor d'Hondt (with a small d), while the surname all by itself would be D'Hondt (with a capital D). However, in Belgium it is always capitalized, hence: Victor D'Hondt.

#1#While an interesting idea, Congressional districts are not neutrally defined.#1#

And besides, what's a state if not just a very large district? Why not use a popular vote, if you don't want to render certain people's votes meaningless?

[Link](https://www.google.be/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/05/15/americas-most-gerrymandered-congressional-districts/&ved=0ahUKEwjT1Jiaxp7QAhVBKcAKHZU-AzUQFghJMAU&usg=AFQjCNF_kD71W8qjdLbbl6BZtnuoslu-Og&sig2=mErJC0K23xnjCVHGkqLjXg)

Edit : You'd just change the issue from battleground states to battleground distructs, with the difference that dustricts can be manipulated.



https://www.google.be/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/05/15/americas-most-gerrymandered-congressional-districts/&ved=0ahUKEwjT1Jiaxp7QAhVBKcAKHZU-AzUQFghJMAU&usg=AFQjCNF_kD71W8qjdLbbl6BZtnuoslu-Og&sig2=mErJC0K23xnjCVHGkqLjXg
AMERICA’S MOST GERRYMANDERED CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS
Crimes against geography.

This election year we can expect to hear a lot about Congressional district gerrymandering, which is when political parties redraw district boundaries to give themselves an electoral advantage.

Gerrymandering is at least partly to blame for the lopsided Republican representation in the House. According to an analysis I did last year, the Democrats are under-represented by about 18 seats in the House, relative to their vote share in the 2012 election. The way Republicans pulled that off was to draw some really, really funky-looking Congressional districts.

Contrary to one popular misconception about the practice, the point of gerrymandering isn't to draw yourself a collection of overwhelmingly safe seats. Rather, it's to give your opponents a small number of safe seats, while drawing yourself a larger number of seats that are not quite as safe, but that you can expect to win comfortably. Considering this dynamic, John Sides of The Washington Post's Monkey Cage blog has argued convincingly that gerrymandering is not what's behind the rising polarization in Congress.

#1#The process of re-drawing district lines to give an advantage to one party over another is called "gerrymandering".#1# Here's how it works. (Daron Taylor/The Washington Post)

The compactness of a district -- a measure of how irregular its shape is, as determined by the ratio of the area of the district to the area of a circle with the same perimeter -- can serve as a useful proxy for how gerrymandered the district is. Districts that follow a generally regular shape tend to be compact, while those that have a lot of squiggles and offshoots and tentacle-looking protuberances tend to score poorly on this measure.

Using district boundary files from the Census, I calculated compactness scores for each of the districts of the 113th Congress and mapped them so you can see where the least compact -- and likely most-gerrymandered --districts are. Click through for an interactive map, along with detailed methodological notes for the brave.





There's a lot to say about these districts, about who drew them, the factors that went into their creation and the electoral consequences. Here's a straightforward run-down of where the most- and least-gerrymandered districts are.

1. Democrats won in nine of the 10 most-gerrymandered districts. But eight out of 10 of those districts were drawn by Republicans.

This speaks to the notion that the point of gerrymandering isn't to draw yourself a safe seat but to put your opponents in safe seats by cramming all of their supporters into a small number of districts. This lets you spread your own supporters over a larger number of districts. And the way to do this is to draw outlandishly-shaped districts that bring far-flung geographic areas together. North Carolina's 12th district, which holds the title of the nation's most-gerrymandered, is a textbook example of this: It snakes from north of Greensboro, to Winston-Salem, and then all the way down to Charlotte, spanning most of the state in the process.

2. Three of the 10 most-gerrymandered districts are in North Carolina.

North Carolina Republicans really outdid themselves in 2012. In addition to the 12th district, there's the 4th, which covers Raleigh and Burlington and snakes a narrow tentacle all the way south to pick up parts of Fayetteville. And then there's the 1st District, which covers a sprawling arbitrarily shaped region in the northeastern part of the state. All three of these seats were won by Democrats in 2012.

Overall, the North Carolina GOP's efforts paid off handsomely. Based on their statewide vote share you'd expect North Carolina Democrats to hold about seven seats. But they won only four. This is because an outsized share of the state's Democratic voters were shunted off into the three highly-gerrymandered districts above.

3. Indiana and Nevada stand out as states with the least amount of gerrymandering.

In contrast to North Carolina's Republicans, Indiana's did a remarkably good job of drawing sensible district boundaries. The same holds true for Nevada's Democrats, although with only four districts, the district boundaries in Nevada are dictated to a large degree by the state's borders.

4. Maryland and North Carolina are essentially tied for the honor of most-gerrymandered state.

With average gerrymander scores of about 88 out of a possible 100, Maryland and North Carolina are home to some of the ugliest districts in the nation among states with at least three Congressional districts. In fact, North Carolina is home to three out of the top 10 most-gerrymandered districts in the country. Maryland is proof that gerrymandering isn't just a Republican pastime, as the state's Democrats redrew those boundaries in 2012. The standout in that state is the 3rd Congressional district, which is the nation's second-most gerrymandered and home to Democratic congressman John Sarbanes.

5. Republicans drew Congressional boundaries in six of the 10 most-gerrymandered states.

In addition to North Carolina, Republicans drew district boundaries in Louisiana, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Alabama. Democrats drew districts in West Virginia and Illinois, in addition to Maryland. Boundaries in Kentucky were drawn up by that state's mixed legislature.

Again, the payoff for Republicans is in the makeup of the state's delegations: In those six states, Republicans picked up about 11 more seats than you'd expect from simply looking at the parties' vote shares.

6. Gerrymandering is easier to get away with in more densely-populated areas.

You'll notice that many of the highly irregular districts are clustered around cities and metro areas. When there are more people in a given area, partisans have more leeway in how to draw their districts.

7. This is what the 10 most-gerrymandered districts look like.

For a sense of just how ridiculous gerrymandered districts look, nothing beats a visual. I've listed the 10 most gerrymandered districts below.

NORTH CAROLINA'S 12TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 97.09

MARYLAND'S 3RD DISTRICT ("The praying mantis")

Gerrymander index score: 96.79

FLORIDA'S 5TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 96.15

PENNSYLVANIA'S 7TH DISTRICT ("Goofy kicking Donald Duck")

Gerrymander index score: 96.05

NORTH CAROLINA'S 1ST DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 96.01

TEXAS'S 33RD DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 95.60

NORTH CAROLINA'S 4TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 95.16

ILLINOIS'S 4TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 94.96

TEXAS'S 35TH DISTRICT ("The upside-down elephant")

Gerrymander index score: 94.63

LOUISIANA'S 2ND DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 94.41

Want more on gerrymandering? Check out this excellent video produced by PostTV last year.


#1#There is literally proof that the DNC did...#1#

Edit, simple Google search https://www.google.com/amp/observer.com/2016/07/wikileaks-proves-primary-was-rigged-dnc-undermined-democracy/amp/



https://www.google.com/amp/observer.com/2016/07/wikileaks-proves-primary-was-rigged-dnc-undermined-democracy/amp/
WIKILEAKS PROVES PRIMARY WAS RIGGED: DNC UNDERMINED DEMOCRACY
On July 25, the Democratic National Convention will begin in Philadelphia, Pa. To commemorate the event and its embrace of corrupt politician Hillary Clinton as the Democratic nominee, Wikileaks is releasing thousands of DNC/Clinton emails.

Are you ready for Hillary? We begin our series today with 20 thousand emails from the top of the DNC. #Hillary2016 pic.twitter.com/YZbGhjTy2h — WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) July 22, 2016

In its recent leak of 20,000 DNC emails from January 2015 to May 2016, DNC staff discuss how to deal with Bernie Sanders’ popularity as a challenge to Clinton’s candidacy. #1#Instead of treating Sanders as a viable candidate for the Democratic ticket, the DNC worked against him and his campaign to ensure Clinton received the nomination.#1#

One email from DNC Deputy Communications Director Eric Walker to several DNC staffers cites two news articles showing Sanders leading in Rhode Island and the limited number of polling locations in the state: “If she outperforms this polling, the Bernie camp will go nuts and allege misconduct. They’ll probably complain regardless, actually.”

Instead of treating Sanders with impartiality, the DNC exhibits resentful disdain toward him and the thousands of disenfranchised voters he could have brought into the party.

“Wondering if there’s a good Bernie narrative for a story, which is that Bernie never ever had his act together, that his campaign was a mess,” wrote DNC Deputy Communications Director Mark Paustenbach to DNC Communications Director Luis Miranda, in response to backlash over DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz shutting off the Sanders campaign’s access to voter database files.

Another chain reveals MSNBC’s Chuck Todd and DNC staff members discussing how to discredit MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski’s call for Wasserman Schultz to resign.

Most of the emails released come from seven prominent DNC staff members: senior adviser Andrew Wright, national finance director Jordon Kaplan, finance chief of staff Scott Comer, Northern California finance director Robert Stowe, finance director of data and strategic initiatives Daniel Parrish, finance director Allen Zachary and Miranda.

The release provides further evidence the DNC broke its own charter violations by favoring Clinton as the Democratic presidential nominee, long before any votes were cast.

Over the past several weeks, Guccifer 2.0 released several internal memos showing DNC staff strategizing to make Clinton the presidential nominee—as early as March 2015. In June 2016, Florida-based law firm, Beck & Lee, filed a class action lawsuit against Wasserman Schultz and the DNC based on the revelations from these leaked files.

Other emails show DNC staff in damage control over allegations from the Sanders campaign, when a report—corroborated by a Politico—revealed the DNC’s joint fundraising committee with the Clinton campaign was laundering money to the Clinton campaign instead of fundraising for down-ticket Democrats. Regardless of the fundraising tactics, because both major campaigns didn’t agree to use the joint fundraising committee super-PAC with the DNC, the DNC should have recused itself from participating with just the Clinton campaign.

The Wikileaks and Guccifer 2.0 leaks are the perfect end to a Democratic primary that undermined democracy at every possible opportunity while maintaining plausible deniability.

The party’s rules, including the use of super delegates—who disproportionately endorsed Clinton before the primaries began—are intended to provide the Democratic Party leverage over the election process. Throughout the primaries, decisions were made by DNC officials to help Clinton build and maintain a lead over Sanders.

More votes were cast for Clinton, but they were cast at the behest of a Democratic Party that downplayed her shortfalls to the extent that Sanders not only had to run against Clinton but also against the entire Democratic Establishment. Heading into the Democratic National Convention, voters are beginning to understand that their voices are of little concern to the leadership.

SEE ALSO: WE’RE STILL WAITING ON CLINTON’S WALL STREET SPEECH TRANSCRIPTS

Note: I might have different feelings about Mr. Trump regarding other issues, but I try not to use ad hominem and neither should anyone commenting.

The basis for Mr. Trumps argument is that globalism is bad for the US economy, and therefor for US workers, since he belives in trickle down economy.

The main issue with this proposal is that #1#[the US is importing goods with a value of 700 billion USD more than it is exporting]#1#(https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/balance/c0004.html) this means, that every tax imposted by the US will have more griveous implications for the US market, since 

1. the price hike will be directly offset by price increase to the customer
2. any tax will be matched with a "countertax" matching the US' tax and therfor increasing viability of foreign made high tech goods (European products)

I dont think any smallish tax will bring jobs back where the margin for the retailer in the US is above 1.5 ish to double the imposed tax right now, which is likely a lot. The  costs to get production started in markeds that are already settled is too much of a risk, given the possibility of a total revision of this plan in 4 years. No one is investing millions into production facilities without the prospect of a secure investment for a long time and a fast return on their money. Which is nothing that can be guaranteed given that exporting said products will be equally complicated because of the "countertax".

While I see that the US- market is vast, I dont see the possibility for more a self- sufficient marked given the circumstances of dependence on chinese raw products for *all* high tech products (Speaking with personal experience, working for a global player in chemistry) 

overall I assume that the market will react badly to price hikes for the consumer in driving the devide between those who can affort it and those who cannot even further instead of making it smaller.

I can see the US market react badly to both tax on their products (by other nations) and to US imposed tax on foreign products on which the consumer and the economy depend on while being competitive. 

This will lead to factories who operate on smallish margins ( car manufacturing suppliers ) going out of buisness if they are dependent on any foreign made product or raw materials. Which will lead to a greater dependence on foreign made products by default, the exact opposite of the intended result.


Obviously there are ways to impose selective tax on foreign products, but this does not ensure that foreign countries will limit their tax as well. If one party is starting a trade war, I would assume other parties will not just watch while their economy hurts.

Change my view. 

_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/balance/c0004.html
U.S. TRADE WITH WORLD, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED
Trade in Goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted

Available years:

2017 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2017 127,130.9 195,351.7 -68,220.8 February 2017 127,438.2 191,832.9 -64,394.6 March 2017 127,013.1 191,936.6 -64,923.4 April 2017 126,673.5 193,780.7 -67,107.3 May 2017 126,810.3 193,091.9 -66,281.6 June 2017 128,954.1 192,893.8 -63,939.7 July 2017 128,593.2 192,415.2 -63,821.9 August 2017 128,254.7 191,986.2 -63,731.5 September 2017 130,334.3 194,446.5 -64,112.2 TOTAL 2017 #1#1,151,202.4 1,737,735.5#1# -586,533.1



2016 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2016 116,209.6 179,116.7 -62,907.2 February 2016 118,692.3 182,966.9 -64,274.6 March 2016 117,603.6 174,256.4 -56,652.8 April 2016 119,179.3 177,025.7 -57,846.4 May 2016 119,467.3 180,263.1 -60,795.9 June 2016 120,392.4 184,097.0 -63,704.6 July 2016 122,011.3 183,125.2 -61,114.0 August 2016 123,537.6 183,573.4 -60,035.8 September 2016 124,282.1 182,637.6 -58,355.5 October 2016 122,360.9 184,350.2 -61,989.3 November 2016 121,204.5 186,884.5 -65,680.0 December 2016 126,069.9 189,508.1 -63,438.2 TOTAL 2016 1,451,010.7 2,187,804.9 -736,794.2



2015 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2015 128,127.9 190,913.9 -62,786.0 February 2015 126,664.6 184,095.7 -57,431.1 March 2015 127,161.7 197,354.6 -70,192.9 April 2015 128,970.7 190,263.5 -61,292.8 May 2015 127,475.8 187,840.2 -60,364.4 June 2015 126,790.2 190,021.4 -63,231.2 July 2015 126,836.8 187,417.7 -60,580.8 August 2015 123,595.3 187,780.9 -64,185.6 September 2015 124,500.6 186,049.2 -61,548.5 October 2015 122,200.5 183,774.4 -61,573.9 November 2015 120,940.9 181,577.1 -60,636.1 December 2015 119,836.4 181,094.7 -61,258.3 TOTAL 2015 1,503,101.5 2,248,183.2 -745,081.8



2014 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2014 132,514.1 192,185.6 -59,671.6 February 2014 132,139.0 193,313.9 -61,174.9 March 2014 136,236.1 198,397.9 -62,161.9 April 2014 134,918.5 200,025.3 -65,106.8 May 2014 136,412.6 198,237.1 -61,824.5 June 2014 135,963.5 196,110.4 -60,147.0 July 2014 136,452.1 196,733.1 -60,281.0 August 2014 137,357.1 195,646.9 -58,289.8 September 2014 134,635.2 196,867.5 -62,232.3 October 2014 136,752.8 197,659.7 -60,907.0 November 2014 134,748.5 194,611.8 -59,863.3 December 2014 133,744.4 196,566.8 -62,822.5 TOTAL 2014 1,621,873.8 2,356,356.1 -734,482.3



2013 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2013 129,892.3 189,809.3 -59,916.9 February 2013 131,929.4 192,655.3 -60,725.9 March 2013 129,195.5 183,966.7 -54,771.1 April 2013 130,640.6 188,166.4 -57,525.7 May 2013 129,517.2 190,945.6 -61,428.5 June 2013 132,138.7 186,853.7 -54,715.0 July 2013 130,855.3 187,817.1 -56,961.8 August 2013 131,165.1 188,180.4 -57,015.3 September 2013 130,593.7 191,294.9 -60,701.1 October 2013 134,237.6 191,086.9 -56,849.4 November 2013 134,981.2 189,221.4 -54,240.3 December 2013 133,370.2 187,989.1 -54,618.9 TOTAL 2013 1,578,516.9 2,267,986.7 -689,469.9



2012 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2012 125,888.0 191,550.7 -65,662.7 February 2012 127,269.7 186,726.5 -59,456.8 March 2012 130,489.1 196,615.4 -66,126.3 April 2012 129,049.1 192,329.3 -63,280.2 May 2012 129,327.7 191,026.6 -61,698.9 June 2012 129,422.5 188,829.8 -59,407.3 July 2012 128,698.0 187,644.6 -58,946.6 August 2012 127,030.2 187,209.2 -60,179.0 September 2012 132,192.6 188,747.9 -56,555.3 October 2012 126,280.5 185,822.3 -59,541.7 November 2012 128,357.1 192,148.3 -63,791.2 December 2012 131,816.4 187,616.7 -55,800.3 TOTAL 2012 1,545,820.8 2,276,267.1 -730,446.3



2011 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2011 117,337.0 178,698.0 -61,361.0 February 2011 115,705.0 174,228.0 -58,523.0 March 2011 122,617.0 181,256.0 -58,639.0 April 2011 124,393.0 181,060.0 -56,667.0 May 2011 123,588.0 185,321.0 -61,733.0 June 2011 121,316.0 185,391.0 -64,075.0 July 2011 125,104.0 185,822.0 -60,718.0 August 2011 125,120.0 185,727.0 -60,607.0 September 2011 127,409.0 185,718.0 -58,309.0 October 2011 127,268.0 186,685.0 -59,417.0 November 2011 125,713.0 187,195.0 -61,482.0 December 2011 126,937.0 190,853.0 -63,916.0 TOTAL 2011 1,482,507.0 2,207,954.0 -725,447.0



2010 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2010 98,302.0 146,808.0 -48,506.0 February 2010 99,555.0 150,520.0 -50,965.0 March 2010 103,530.0 153,982.0 -50,452.0 April 2010 102,397.0 153,706.0 -51,309.0 May 2010 105,517.0 158,128.0 -52,611.0 June 2010 104,494.0 162,202.0 -57,708.0 July 2010 107,246.0 159,664.0 -52,418.0 August 2010 107,428.0 164,528.0 -57,100.0 September 2010 107,734.0 163,835.0 -56,101.0 October 2010 112,730.0 165,302.0 -52,572.0 November 2010 113,521.0 164,893.0 -51,372.0 December 2010 116,039.0 170,290.0 -54,251.0 TOTAL 2010 1,278,493.0 1,913,858.0 -635,365.0



2009 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2009 82,415.0 129,116.0 -46,701.0 February 2009 84,903.0 121,807.0 -36,904.0 March 2009 83,500.0 121,885.0 -38,385.0 April 2009 81,088.0 120,572.0 -39,484.0 May 2009 83,369.0 118,736.0 -35,367.0 June 2009 85,737.0 122,156.0 -36,419.0 July 2009 87,833.0 129,912.0 -42,079.0 August 2009 87,767.0 128,770.0 -41,003.0 September 2009 91,673.0 136,267.0 -44,594.0 October 2009 94,829.0 139,309.0 -44,480.0 November 2009 94,635.0 143,475.0 -48,840.0 December 2009 98,293.0 147,620.0 -49,327.0 TOTAL 2009 1,056,042.0 1,559,625.0 -503,583.0



2008 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2008 104,441.0 175,412.0 -70,971.0 February 2008 107,512.0 179,496.0 -71,984.0 March 2008 105,976.0 175,126.0 -69,150.0 April 2008 110,383.0 182,776.0 -72,393.0 May 2008 110,828.0 183,767.0 -72,939.0 June 2008 115,784.0 186,963.0 -71,179.0 July 2008 118,309.0 194,334.0 -76,025.0 August 2008 116,219.0 186,261.0 -70,042.0 September 2008 107,172.0 175,833.0 -68,661.0 October 2008 105,006.0 174,067.0 -69,061.0 November 2008 97,819.0 150,372.0 -52,553.0 December 2008 87,992.0 139,234.0 -51,242.0 TOTAL 2008 1,287,441.0 2,103,641.0 -816,200.0



2007 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2007 90,847.0 156,000.0 -65,153.0 February 2007 88,931.0 155,097.0 -66,166.0 March 2007 92,877.0 161,806.0 -68,929.0 April 2007 92,573.0 159,655.0 -67,082.0 May 2007 94,330.0 161,050.0 -66,720.0 June 2007 95,344.0 163,137.0 -67,793.0 July 2007 95,773.0 163,679.0 -67,906.0 August 2007 97,552.0 163,444.0 -65,892.0 September 2007 98,065.0 164,883.0 -66,818.0 October 2007 99,509.0 166,868.0 -67,359.0 November 2007 100,798.0 171,602.0 -70,804.0 December 2007 101,598.0 169,741.0 -68,143.0 TOTAL 2007 1,148,197.0 1,956,962.0 -808,765.0



2006 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2006 80,555.0 152,919.0 -72,364.0 February 2006 81,535.0 148,596.0 -67,061.0 March 2006 83,299.0 150,759.0 -67,460.0 April 2006 83,188.0 151,278.0 -68,090.0 May 2006 84,593.0 154,996.0 -70,403.0 June 2006 86,432.0 155,279.0 -68,847.0 July 2006 84,328.0 156,232.0 -71,904.0 August 2006 86,715.0 159,838.0 -73,123.0 September 2006 87,510.0 157,913.0 -70,403.0 October 2006 88,264.0 153,411.0 -65,147.0 November 2006 89,566.0 154,406.0 -64,840.0 December 2006 89,984.0 158,312.0 -68,328.0 TOTAL 2006 1,025,969.0 1,853,939.0 -827,970.0



2005 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2005 71,669.0 132,065.0 -60,396.0 February 2005 72,184.8 134,921.0 -62,736.2 March 2005 72,793.3 130,902.0 -58,108.7 April 2005 75,490.2 137,129.0 -61,638.8 May 2005 75,073.9 135,665.0 -60,591.1 June 2005 74,950.1 137,614.0 -62,663.9 July 2005 74,688.4 137,423.0 -62,734.6 August 2005 76,214.7 139,189.0 -62,974.3 September 2005 74,227.5 143,958.0 -69,730.5 October 2005 76,236.2 148,676.0 -72,439.8 November 2005 77,744.5 146,650.0 -68,905.5 December 2005 79,809.2 149,264.0 -69,454.8 TOTAL 2005 901,081.8 1,673,456.0 -772,374.2



2004 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2004 62,693.0 110,890.0 -48,197.0 February 2004 65,852.5 113,977.0 -48,124.5 March 2004 67,871.0 118,678.0 -50,807.0 April 2004 67,069.9 118,542.0 -51,472.1 May 2004 68,677.4 120,671.0 -51,993.6 June 2004 66,378.4 124,355.0 -57,976.6 July 2004 67,645.8 122,979.0 -55,333.2 August 2004 68,131.7 124,224.0 -56,092.3 September 2004 69,592.3 124,400.0 -54,807.7 October 2004 70,167.6 128,810.0 -58,642.4 November 2004 69,283.5 131,867.0 -62,583.5 December 2004 71,511.4 130,310.0 -58,798.6 TOTAL 2004 814,874.5 1,469,703.0 -654,828.5



2003 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2003 58,068.0 102,284.0 -44,216.0 February 2003 58,846.0 101,719.0 -42,873.0 March 2003 59,077.0 105,340.0 -46,263.0 April 2003 58,573.0 103,175.0 -44,602.0 May 2003 58,314.0 102,613.0 -44,299.0 June 2003 60,582.0 103,398.0 -42,816.0 July 2003 60,696.0 105,082.0 -44,386.0 August 2003 59,170.0 101,990.0 -42,820.0 September 2003 61,041.0 105,721.0 -44,680.0 October 2003 62,203.0 107,040.0 -44,837.0 November 2003 64,665.0 107,742.0 -43,077.0 December 2003 63,536.0 111,017.0 -47,481.0 TOTAL 2003 724,771.0 1,257,121.0 -532,350.0



2002 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2002 55,939.0 89,443.0 -33,504.0 February 2002 55,717.0 91,539.0 -35,822.0 March 2002 55,925.0 91,447.0 -35,522.0 April 2002 57,958.0 95,972.0 -38,014.0 May 2002 58,182.0 96,395.0 -38,213.0 June 2002 58,772.0 97,848.0 -39,076.0 July 2002 59,129.0 97,197.0 -38,068.0 August 2002 59,173.0 99,721.0 -40,548.0 September 2002 58,639.0 99,364.0 -40,725.0 October 2002 58,066.0 96,860.0 -38,794.0 November 2002 58,815.0 102,120.0 -43,305.0 December 2002 56,789.0 103,460.0 -46,671.0 TOTAL 2002 693,104.0 1,161,366.0 -468,262.0



2001 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2001 65,869.0 105,470.0 -39,601.0 February 2001 66,114.0 100,350.0 -34,236.0 March 2001 64,350.0 101,853.0 -37,503.0 April 2001 62,805.0 98,164.0 -35,359.0 May 2001 63,772.0 95,150.0 -31,378.0 June 2001 61,102.0 94,978.0 -33,876.0 July 2001 59,298.0 93,680.0 -34,382.0 August 2001 59,648.0 92,569.0 -32,921.0 September 2001 56,375.0 90,957.0 -34,582.0 October 2001 56,987.0 91,322.0 -34,335.0 November 2001 56,711.0 89,979.0 -33,268.0 December 2001 56,069.0 86,527.0 -30,458.0 TOTAL 2001 729,100.0 1,140,999.0 -411,899.0



2000 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2000 62,543.0 93,900.0 -31,357.0 February 2000 62,409.0 95,901.0 -33,492.0 March 2000 63,135.0 99,176.0 -36,041.0 April 2000 63,814.0 99,242.0 -35,428.0 May 2000 63,632.0 99,651.0 -36,019.0 June 2000 65,997.0 103,019.0 -37,022.0 July 2000 65,711.0 103,349.0 -37,638.0 August 2000 67,763.0 103,665.0 -35,902.0 September 2000 67,562.0 106,396.0 -38,834.0 October 2000 66,845.0 106,056.0 -39,211.0 November 2000 66,691.0 103,993.0 -37,302.0 December 2000 65,816.0 103,673.0 -37,857.0 TOTAL 2000 781,918.0 1,218,021.0 -436,103.0



1999 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1999 56,272.0 77,781.0 -21,509.0 February 1999 55,522.0 79,842.0 -24,320.0 March 1999 55,749.0 79,569.0 -23,820.0 April 1999 56,546.0 80,801.0 -24,255.0 May 1999 56,502.0 83,200.0 -26,698.0 June 1999 56,420.0 85,868.0 -29,448.0 July 1999 57,269.0 87,186.0 -29,917.0 August 1999 58,713.0 87,837.0 -29,124.0 September 1999 60,053.0 88,512.0 -28,459.0 October 1999 60,037.0 89,923.0 -29,886.0 November 1999 60,206.0 90,984.0 -30,778.0 December 1999 62,509.0 93,115.0 -30,606.0 TOTAL 1999 695,798.0 1,024,618.0 -328,820.0



1998 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1998 58,296.0 74,523.0 -16,227.0 February 1998 57,456.0 74,184.0 -16,728.0 March 1998 57,814.0 76,369.0 -18,555.0 April 1998 56,014.0 76,350.0 -20,336.0 May 1998 55,986.0 76,492.0 -20,506.0 June 1998 56,145.0 74,911.0 -18,766.0 July 1998 55,477.0 74,594.0 -19,117.0 August 1998 55,081.0 75,707.0 -20,626.0 September 1998 56,324.0 76,107.0 -19,783.0 October 1998 58,131.0 77,880.0 -19,749.0 November 1998 58,424.0 77,912.0 -19,488.0 December 1998 56,989.0 76,867.0 -19,878.0 TOTAL 1998 682,137.0 911,896.0 -229,759.0



1997 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1997 52,904.0 69,846.0 -16,942.0 February 1997 55,077.0 70,131.0 -15,054.0 March 1997 56,931.0 70,023.0 -13,092.0 April 1997 57,365.0 71,262.0 -13,897.0 May 1997 57,500.0 72,137.0 -14,637.0 June 1997 58,289.0 71,658.0 -13,369.0 July 1997 59,590.0 73,330.0 -13,740.0 August 1997 58,251.0 73,623.0 -15,372.0 September 1997 58,605.0 74,408.0 -15,803.0 October 1997 58,765.0 74,641.0 -15,876.0 November 1997 57,657.0 73,588.0 -15,931.0 December 1997 58,247.0 75,056.0 -16,809.0 TOTAL 1997 689,181.0 869,703.0 -180,522.0



1996 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1996 50,275.0 63,825.0 -13,550.0 February 1996 51,625.0 63,519.0 -11,894.0 March 1996 50,901.0 63,806.0 -12,905.0 April 1996 51,351.0 64,459.0 -13,108.0 May 1996 52,012.0 66,464.0 -14,452.0 June 1996 52,114.0 66,087.0 -13,973.0 July 1996 51,330.0 66,253.0 -14,923.0 August 1996 52,521.0 67,329.0 -14,808.0 September 1996 52,264.0 68,080.0 -15,816.0 October 1996 53,474.0 67,423.0 -13,949.0 November 1996 54,123.0 68,364.0 -14,241.0 December 1996 53,087.0 69,681.0 -16,594.0 TOTAL 1996 625,077.0 795,290.0 -170,213.0



1995 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1995 46,256.0 60,492.0 -14,236.0 February 1995 46,597.0 59,836.0 -13,239.0 March 1995 48,259.0 61,390.0 -13,131.0 April 1995 47,684.0 62,557.0 -14,873.0 May 1995 48,405.0 62,311.0 -13,906.0 June 1995 48,271.0 62,698.0 -14,427.0 July 1995 48,097.0 62,479.0 -14,382.0 August 1995 49,309.0 62,042.0 -12,733.0 September 1995 50,640.0 62,845.0 -12,205.0 October 1995 50,133.0 62,028.0 -11,895.0 November 1995 50,259.0 62,138.0 -11,879.0 December 1995 50,832.0 62,727.0 -11,895.0 TOTAL 1995 584,742.0 743,543.0 -158,801.0



1994 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1994 39,843.0 50,027.0 -10,184.0 February 1994 38,293.0 50,399.0 -12,106.0 March 1994 42,487.0 52,267.0 -9,780.0 April 1994 41,251.0 52,936.0 -11,685.0 May 1994 41,379.0 53,830.0 -12,451.0 June 1994 42,850.0 55,731.0 -12,881.0 July 1994 41,955.0 56,096.0 -14,141.0 August 1994 44,377.0 57,396.0 -13,019.0 September 1994 44,002.0 57,640.0 -13,638.0 October 1994 44,203.0 57,950.0 -13,747.0 November 1994 45,042.0 59,778.0 -14,736.0 December 1994 46,945.0 59,204.0 -12,259.0 TOTAL 1994 512,627.0 663,254.0 -150,627.0



1993 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1993 37,616.0 45,495.0 -7,879.0 February 1993 37,064.0 45,102.0 -8,038.0 March 1993 39,027.0 48,969.0 -9,942.0 April 1993 38,717.0 48,573.0 -9,856.0 May 1993 39,592.0 47,942.0 -8,350.0 June 1993 37,932.0 49,189.0 -11,257.0 July 1993 37,422.0 48,112.0 -10,690.0 August 1993 37,833.0 47,901.0 -10,068.0 September 1993 38,413.0 49,083.0 -10,670.0 October 1993 40,006.0 50,820.0 -10,814.0 November 1993 40,049.0 49,939.0 -9,890.0 December 1993 41,420.0 49,534.0 -8,114.0 TOTAL 1993 465,091.0 580,659.0 -115,568.0



1992 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1992 35,403.7 41,809.5 -6,405.8 February 1992 37,702.1 41,370.6 -3,668.5 March 1992 37,208.1 42,681.2 -5,473.1 April 1992 36,558.4 43,398.8 -6,840.4 May 1992 36,012.0 43,954.1 -7,942.1 June 1992 38,356.1 44,954.1 -6,598.0 July 1992 37,501.9 44,989.4 -7,487.5 August 1992 36,444.8 45,466.5 -9,021.7 September 1992 37,469.5 45,670.9 -8,201.4 October 1992 38,931.7 46,159.5 -7,227.8 November 1992 37,744.3 45,971.2 -8,226.9 December 1992 38,830.9 46,238.6 -7,407.7 TOTAL 1992 448,163.5 532,664.4 -84,500.9



1991 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1991 34,290.0 41,282.2 -6,992.2 February 1991 33,637.2 39,411.9 -5,774.7 March 1991 34,411.7 38,896.7 -4,485.0 April 1991 35,302.6 39,769.4 -4,466.8 May 1991 35,109.7 40,256.0 -5,146.3 June 1991 34,926.2 39,842.7 -4,916.5 July 1991 34,870.5 40,413.4 -5,542.9 August 1991 34,856.3 40,901.9 -6,045.6 September 1991 35,158.6 41,488.2 -6,329.6 October 1991 36,655.5 42,461.9 -5,806.4 November 1991 37,085.3 41,653.4 -4,568.1 December 1991 35,619.3 41,795.0 -6,175.7 TOTAL 1991 421,922.9 488,172.7 -66,249.8



1990 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1990 31,613.2 41,380.4 -9,767.2 February 1990 31,709.6 39,164.4 -7,454.8 March 1990 33,187.4 41,830.0 -8,642.6 April 1990 32,044.4 39,796.9 -7,752.5 May 1990 32,511.2 40,599.8 -8,088.6 June 1990 33,695.9 40,687.0 -6,991.1 July 1990 32,307.7 41,315.8 -9,008.1 August 1990 32,557.2 41,795.6 -9,238.4 September 1990 32,311.6 41,343.8 -9,032.2 October 1990 34,492.6 43,875.5 -9,382.9 November 1990 33,581.1 43,066.4 -9,485.3 December 1990 33,800.3 39,986.1 -6,185.8 TOTAL 1990 393,812.2 494,841.7 -101,029.5



1989 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1989 28,380.8 37,513.2 -9,132.4 February 1989 28,494.0 38,561.7 -10,067.7 March 1989 30,659.3 39,724.7 -9,065.4 April 1989 30,569.2 38,664.7 -8,095.5 May 1989 30,689.5 40,909.6 -10,220.1 June 1989 31,295.3 39,780.9 -8,485.6 July 1989 29,933.6 38,951.3 -9,017.7 August 1989 30,167.5 40,117.3 -9,949.8 September 1989 30,414.6 39,232.9 -8,818.3 October 1989 31,159.6 40,961.2 -9,801.6 November 1989 30,526.0 40,429.0 -9,903.0 December 1989 31,522.0 38,364.0 -6,842.0 TOTAL 1989 363,811.4 473,210.5 -109,399.1



Additional Information

DOWNLOAD: Download the full dataset for all countries[EXCEL - 5 MB]

I was reading an interesting analysis from [National Review](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/442059/dont-blame-clinton-trump-2016-wouldve-beaten-obama-2012), where they lay out #1#the case that Trump's performance in this election would have beaten Obama's performance in the 2012 election#1#.

The math works like this, even with lower turnout in 2016, Trump flips three Obama states:

* **Florida:** Obama 2012: 4,235,270 Trump 2016: 4,605,515
* **Pennsylvania:** Obama 2012: 2,907,448 Trump 2016: 2,912,941
* **Ohio:** Obama 2012: 2,697,260 Trump 2016: 2,771,984

Which is enough to get him to 273 EV. He also holds the Romney states:

* **North Carolina:** Trump 2,339,603 Obama 2,178,388
* **Arizona:** Trump 947,284 Obama 930,669 
* **Georgia:** Trump 2,068,623 Obama 1,761,761
* **Utah:** Trump 360,634 Obama 229,463

Trump does lose some states like Michigan, Wisconsin, and a few others, but it would not have been enough to give the election to Obama. Trump wins 273/265. The implications of this being that Trump was actually a stronger candidate than he is being given credit for, and Clinton was not necessarily as weak as she is being portrayed.

Right off the bat, my view won't be changed by just saying something like "things would have been different", something like "you can't compare the two", or "you never know what would have happened". I'd kind of like to hear specific reasons why this analysis is invalid. 



http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/442059/dont-blame-clinton-trump-2016-wouldve-beaten-obama-2012
UPDATED: OBAMA 2012 WOULD'VE BEATEN TRUMP 2016
UPDATE: Mea Culpa.

Here’s what happened: I used the New York Times vote-record database for the numbers in this post. This was a matter of convenience; I had already been using the NYT database because of its excellent interactive feature, which allows you to scroll over counties in any state color-coded indicators of partisan margin as well as raw vote totals. Here’s the problem: The NYT database doesn’t have the correct numbers in some states. Here are screenshots from the NYT that show the numbers I used:

As you can see, three of the four states said “100% reporting,” and Pennsylvania said “99% reporting.”

Checked against the official FEC results from 2012 — which I should have used anyway, a decision that owes to working on 90 minutes of sleep — here’s the difference in Obama’s 2012 vote totals:

Florida — NYT: 4,235,270 … FEC: 4,237,756

Pennsylvania – NYT: 2,907,448 … FEC: 2,990,274

Ohio — NYT: 2,697,260 … FEC: 2,827,621

North Carolina — NYT: 2,178,388 … FEC: 2,178,391

The Florida and North Carolina numbers are nearly identical — and Trump did earn more raw votes in both states than Obama.

However, the Pennsylvania and Ohio numbers were way off in the NYT database — and barring drastic upward revisions in Trump’s numbers once the final votes are tallied, Obama won more votes than Trump in those two states. This would mean mean, in the hypothetical head-to-head matchup that this post was meant to examine, that Obama 2012 would have defeated Trump 2016 in the electoral college.

This error is not the New York Times’ fault. It is my fault. I should have double-checked the numbers, but was working too fast. Please forgive the error.

For full disclosure, here’s the entire post in its original form:

***

It’s easy to glance at Tuesday’s popular vote — which, with 92 percent of all precincts reporting, shows Hillary Clinton with six million fewer votes than Barack Obama won in 2012 – and reach the conclusion that Clinton lost the White House because she failed to turn out the Democratic base. But the truth is much more complicated.

While she underperformed relative to Obama’s 2012 totals in several Midwestern states — Ohio, Michigan, Iowa, and Wisconsin — Clinton ran virtually even with Obama in the battlegrounds of Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Virginia, Nevada, and New Hampshire. What’s more, she far surpassed Obama’s 2012 vote total in Florida, the country’s biggest swing state. Yet somehow, while Obama carried Florida, Clinton lost it.

Which brings us to an important question: Was Donald Trump just good enough to beat a bad Democratic opponent on Tuesday, or does he deserve far more credit? Could he, for instance, have competed with the vaunted Obama machine? The answer, somewhat shockingly, is yes. #1#A review of vote totals in the past two elections reveals that Trump 2016 would have defeated Obama 2012 in the electoral college.#1#

(Disclaimer: This obviously is an apples-to-oranges exercise because no two elections are the same, nor are any two electorates. Still, unlike debating whether the 2016 Cubs would defeat the 1927 Yankees, this is not an entirely abstract argument; a comparison of their respective performances in the country’s most competitive states shows Trump edging Obama in a hypothetical head-to-head matchup.)

The math might seem impossible. After all, Obama won nearly 66 million votes in 2012; Trump is currently at 59.5 million and should finish around 60 million, which will actually be one million fewer votes than Mitt Romney won. How, then, could Trump have topped Obama in the electoral college? The answer: Republican turnout lagged in certain parts of the country but shot through the roof in the nation’s most critical battleground states.

Let’s look at them individually, in descending order by population, and do the electoral-vote math. The 2016 totals aren’t yet final because not all precincts have reported.

FLORIDA — 29 EVs — 98 percent reporting

Obama 2012: 4,235,270

Clinton 2016: 4,485,745



Romney 2012: 4,162,081

Trump 2016: 4,605,515



Conclusion: Trump beats Obama by some 370,000 votes and wins Florida. (Note: Clinton herself won 250,000 more votes in Florida than Obama did in 2012.)



PENNSYLVANIA — 20 EVs — 99 percent reporting

Obama 2012: 2,907,448

Clinton 2016: 2,844,705



Romney 2012: 2,619,583

Trump 2016: 2,912,941



Conclusion: Trump squeezes past Obama by a margin of some 5,000 votes and wins Pennsylvania. (Note: Clinton runs about 60,000 votes behind Obama, but would’ve had more than enough to defeat Romney in 2012.)



OHIO — 18 EVs – 94 percent reporting

Obama 2012: 2,697,260

Clinton 2016: 2,317,001



Romney 2012: 2,593,779

Trump 2016: 2,771,984



Conclusion: Trump edges Obama by roughly 75,000 votes and wins Ohio. (Note: Clinton’s worst battleground state showing was Ohio, winning 380,000 [!] fewer votes than Obama.)



Stop right there and crunch the numbers: Florida (29) + Pennsylvania (20) + Ohio (18) = 67 EVs.

Romney finished with 206 EVs. By protecting all of those, and then taking 67 from Obama, Trump would hit 273 and win the presidency.

The question: Did Trump 2016 defeat Obama 2012 in all of the states Romney won? Yes. Here’s a look at the competitive ones:

– NORTH CAROLINA (98 percent reporting): Trump 2,339,603 … Obama 2,178,388

– ARIZONA (73 percent reporting): Trump 947,284 … Obama 930,669

– GEORGIA (93 percent reporting): Trump 2,068,623 … Obama 1,761,761

– UTAH (78 percent reporting): Trump 360,634 … Obama 229,463

A review of the Romney 2012 states confirms that Trump, in this hypothetical matchup, would have carried every single one against Obama.

It doesn’t matter that Obama would have trounced Trump by nearly 300,000 votes in Michigan; by more than 200,000 in Wisconsin; by 175,000 in Virginia; and by 160,000 in Colorado. It’s similarly meaningless that Obama would have narrowly defeated Trump in Iowa, Nevada, and New Hampshire. The 44th president carried all of those states in 2012, and in this hypothetical contest, he would successfully defend all of them. But it wouldn’t be enough.

The electoral college would produce a razor-thin margin: Trump 273, Obama 265.

Again, this is an apples-to-oranges exercise. It’s impossible to know how the Obama campaign might have targeted certain voters in a contest against Trump, or whether Trump would have the same success in the three big battleground states against a more formidable opponent. But that’s not the point here; the point is that it’s not entirely fair to blame Clinton for depressing Democratic turnout when she ran even with him in five of the country’s most competitive states and ahead of him in a sixth, Florida, the single biggest swing state — and still lost the electoral college.

> Protesting against something as old and accepted as ~~a presidential election~~ the institution of slavery is poor character, instead of accepting the ~~outcome~~ status quo and working together.

See how much that argument doesn't hold? Argument ad antiquitatem is not a good argument at all.

>What are they protesting exactly? The election? It was fair and square. I didn't vote for Trump, but the outcome informs me on the general psyche of the American people, which I must accept.

The outcome is that the #1#[majority of people wanted Hillary Clinton in office]#1#(http://www.cbsnews.com/news/clinton-on-pace-to-win-popular-vote-despite-losing-election/) but an antequated system of the electoral college means that Donald Trump wins with a low margin.

>which I must accept.

That's just false: there's absolutely no reason that you must accept anything, ever. There may be consequences for *not* accepting some things, but if people can refuse to accept that autism isn't caused by vaccines, then the majority of the populus who voted for Hillary can refuse to accept a voting system that has been controversial for the last 20 years, at least, and speak out about it.

>because an outcome of a fair and democratic process

This is the crux of your dissonance: you insist that the electoral college is "fair and democratic" when in fact it is not, as can be seen plainly by the candidate who *lost the popular vote* didn't win the presidency. That is the very definition of undemocratic.



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/clinton-on-pace-to-win-popular-vote-despite-losing-election/
CLINTON ON PACE TO WIN POPULAR VOTE DESPITE LOSING ELECTION
WASHINGTON -- Despite losing Tuesday’s presidential election, Hillary Clinton appears to be on pace to win the popular vote, an ironic twist in an election in which her opponent repeatedly said the system was rigged against him.

Just two days before Election Day, Republican businessman Donald Trump tweeted: “The Electoral College is a disaster for a democracy.”

As it turns out, without the Electoral College, Trump probably wouldn’t be the president-elect.

A day after Election Day, Clinton held a narrow lead in the popular vote, according to unofficial results tallied CBS News. With nearly 125 million votes counted, #1#Clinton had 47.6 percent of the vote and Trump had 47.4 percent.#1#

That’s a lead of about 200,000 votes.

Many states count votes after Election Day, so Clinton isn’t guaranteed to keep her lead. However, most of the outstanding votes appear to be in Democratic-leaning states, making it very likely she will become the second Democratic candidate for president this century to win the popular vote but lose the presidency.

The biggest chunk of uncounted votes is in California. Washington State, New York, Oregon and Maryland also have large numbers of uncounted votes. Clinton won all those states, and if the trends continue, she will pad her lead by more than 1 million votes.

There are also votes to be counted in Arizona and Alaska, two Republican-leaning states. But they are far outnumbered by uncounted votes in Democratic states.

Under the Electoral College system, each state gets one vote for each member of Congress representing the state. California has the most, with 55. Seven states have only three. The District of Columbia has three, even though the nation’s capital has no vote in Congress.

It takes 270 Electoral College votes to win the presidency. Trump’s total stands at 289, with races in Michigan, New Hampshire and Minnesota too close to call.

There have been occasional calls to scrap the Electoral College, with no success. The latest push came after the 2000 presidential election, in which Democrat Al Gore lost to Republican George W. Bush, despite winning the popular vote.

Any calls to scrap the Electoral College aren’t likely to go anywhere this time, either, with Republicans controlling both the House and Senate.

Sen. Tim Kaine, the Democratic candidate for vice president, praised Clinton on Wednesday for winning the popular vote.

But when Clinton made her concession speech, she didn’t mention it.

There is no coherent theory of election analysis based on class differences or wealth. 

[In the primaries](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/?ex_cid=story-twitter), #1#Trump's supporters had a household income above the national median, while Sanders was on par with Clinton, both being slightly below it.#1#  In the general election, he got less votes than Mitt Romney. Even ignoring the actual wealth positions, not an uprising of disenfranchised people, that't the opposition shitting the bed this particular time. 

Complaints about others "taking our jobs", are directly clashing with 5% and dropping unemployment rates both in Britain and in the US. 

These are people who **already have jobs**, voting for a candidate who is promising only to take away the below-minimum-wage sweathsops from China.

It's tempting to call them poor ignorant masses who have ben duped and don't realize that what they actually need is minimum wage hikes and maybe eventually UBI. 

But *how educated do you have to be*, not to notce that you already have a minimum wage job, and the agenda you are backing is only promising you even more factory jobs? 

At that level of incoherence, combined with the data about voter wealth levels, one must conclude that the economical side of the noise is a dogwhistle for cultural discontentment with the world, rather than a meaningful set of financial grievances.



http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/?ex_cid=story-twitter
THE MYTHOLOGY OF TRUMP’S ‘WORKING CLASS’ SUPPORT
It’s been extremely common for news accounts to portray Donald Trump’s candidacy as a “working-class” rebellion against Republican elites. There are elements of truth in this perspective: Republican voters, especially Trump supporters, are unhappy about the direction of the economy. Trump voters have lower incomes than supporters of John Kasich or Marco Rubio. And things have gone so badly for the Republican “establishment” that the party may be facing an existential crisis.

But the definition of “working class” and similar terms is fuzzy, and narratives like these risk obscuring an important and perhaps counterintuitive fact about Trump’s voters: #1#As compared with most Americans, Trump’s voters are better off#1#. The median household income of a Trump voter so far in the primaries is about $72,000, based on estimates derived from exit polls and Census Bureau data. That’s lower than the $91,000 median for Kasich voters. But it’s well above the national median household income of about $56,000. It’s also higher than the median income for Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders supporters, which is around $61,000 for both.

These figures, as I mentioned, are derived from exit polls, which so far have been conducted in 23 primary states. The exit polls have asked voters to describe their 2015 family income by using one of five broad categories, ranging from “under $30,000” to “$200,000 or more.” It’s fairly straightforward to interpolate a median income for voters of each candidate from this data; for instance, we can infer that the median Clinton voter in Wisconsin made about $63,000. You can find my estimates for each candidate in each state in the following table, along with each state’s overall household median income in 2015.

MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME STATE STATEWIDE* CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP Maryland $79k $92k $77k $92k $119k $95k New Hampshire 76 84 69 77 99 78 Connecticut 73 102 75 101 119 99 Virginia 69 83 71 79 114 82 Massachusetts 65 87 68 84 107 93 Vermont 63 80 61 62 85 70 Wisconsin 60 63 63 80 76 69 Missouri 59 58 53 64 80 62 Illinois 57 61 66 74 99 79 Pennsylvania 57 59 57 64 83 71 New York 56 64 65 56 83 85 Texas 56 63 62 82 98 78 Michigan 54 56 51 62 75 61 Georgia 51 59 55 88 89 70 Ohio 51 59 62 62 92 64 Oklahoma 49 57 54 71 102 69 Florida 48 51 50 64 87 70 North Carolina 48 59 56 74 92 62 Arkansas 47 47 49 67 67 63 South Carolina 47 39 47 64 108 72 Tennessee 45 61 52 73 82 64 Alabama 44 44 53 63 75 58 Mississippi 37 38 39 64 97 62 All states** 56 61 61 73 91 72 Trump voters, like others in the GOP, have relatively high incomes * The state median includes all households, not just those that voted in the primaries.

** The aggregate estimate is weighted based on the number of votes a candidate received in each state. Source: Edison Research Exit Polls, Census bureau

Trump voters’ median income exceeded the overall statewide median in all 23 states, sometimes narrowly (as in New Hampshire or Missouri) but sometimes substantially. In Florida, for instance, the median household income for Trump voters was about $70,000, compared with $48,000 for the state as a whole. The differences are usually larger in states with substantial non-white populations, as black and Hispanic voters are overwhelmingly Democratic and tend to have lower incomes. In South Carolina, for example, the median Trump supporter had a household income of $72,000, while the median for Clinton supporters was $39,000.

Ted Cruz voters have a similar median income to Trump supporters — about $73,000. Kasich’s supporters have a very high median income, $91,000, and it has exceeded $100,000 in several states. Rubio’s voters, not displayed in the table above, followed a similar pattern to Kasich voters, with a median income of $88,000.

Many of the differences reflect that Republican voters are wealthier overall than Democratic ones, and also that wealthier Americans are more likely to turn out to vote, especially in the primaries. However, while Republican turnout has considerably increased overall from four years ago, there’s no sign of a particularly heavy turnout among “working-class” or lower-income Republicans. On average in states where exit polls were conducted both this year and in the Republican campaign four years ago, 29 percent of GOP voters have had household incomes below $50,000 this year, compared with 31 percent in 2012.

STATE 2012 2016 Alabama 37% 41% Florida 34 33 Georgia 24 26 Illinois 28 23 Maryland 19 19 Massachusetts 24 20 Michigan 35 37 Mississippi 36 37 New Hampshire 26 27 Ohio 32 30 Oklahoma 41 30 South Carolina 36 27 Tennessee 35 33 Vermont 37 30 Virginia 25 19 Wisconsin 32 28 Average 31 29 Share of Republican electorate with household income below $50,000 Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

The median income for Clinton and Sanders voters — $61,000 for each candidate — is generally much closer to the overall median income in each state. But even Democratic turnout tends to skew slightly toward a wealthier electorate, somewhat validating Sanders’s claim that “poor people don’t vote.” I estimate that 27 percent of American households had incomes under $30,000 last year. By comparison, 20 percent of Clinton voters did, as did 18 percent of Sanders supporters. (Those figures imply Clinton might have a bigger edge on Sanders if more poor people voted, although it would depend on whether they were black, white or Hispanic.) Both Democratic candidates do better than the Republicans in this category, however. Only 12 percent of Trump voters have incomes below $30,000; when you also consider that Clinton has more votes than Trump overall, that means about twice as many low-income voters have cast a ballot for Clinton than for Trump so far this year.

SHARE OF VOTERS HOUSEHOLD INCOME SHARE OF ALL U.S. H’HOLDS CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP <$30,000 27% 20% 18% 11% 9% 12% $30,000-$49,999 18 21 23 17 14 20 $50,000-$99,999 29 30 34 41 31 34 $100,000-$199,999 20 22 21 25 32 25 ≥$200,000 6 7 5 6 14 9 Low-income voters are underrepresented, especially in the GOP Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

Class in America is a complicated concept, and it may be that Trump supporters see themselves as having been left behind in other respects. Since almost all of Trump’s voters so far in the primaries have been non-Hispanic whites, we can ask whether they make lower incomes than other white Americans, for instance. The answer is “no.” The median household income for non-Hispanic whites is about $62,000, still a fair bit lower than the $72,000 median for Trump voters.

Likewise, although about 44 percent of Trump supporters have college degrees, according to exit polls — lower than the 50 percent for Cruz supporters or 64 percent for Kasich supporters — that’s still higher than the 33 percent of non-Hispanic white adults, or the 29 percent of American adults overall, who have at least a bachelor’s degree.

This is not to say that Trump voters are happy about the condition of the economy. Substantial majorities of Republicans in every state so far have said they’re “very worried” about the condition of the U.S. economy, according to exit polls, and these voters have been more likely to vote for Trump. But that anxiety doesn’t necessarily reflect their personal economic circumstances, which for many Trump voters, at least in a relative sense, are reasonably good.

Check out our live coverage of the Indiana primary elections.

> I think we have a clear answer already as to whether past behavior means more to voters than policies.

So in your opinion, the polls are correct about Bernie having had better odds than Trump? Then why weren't the polls correct about  HRC having better odds than Trump?

> Bernie Sander's wasn't a socialist, and it's unlikely the voters would have taken the media any more seriously labeling him that than they did when the media labelled Trump a sexist.

Trump didn't go around saying "I am a sexist." Sanders (maybe mistakenly) openly called himself a socialist, and the GOP will hammer that in. That's pretty hard to get around. And [#1#50% of Americans will not vote for a socialist even if the candidate is otherwise "generally well-qualified."#1# Americans hate socialist candidates more than Muslim, atheist, or gay ones.](http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2016/jan/29/jennifer-granholm/jennifer-granholm-says-americans-would-rather-elec/)

Even if Sanders is closer to a hardline liberal, most voters don't care that much to do independent research. What they will know is that Bernie Sanders has openly declared himself a socialist.

> We have to reevaluate what a traditional campaign is worth in the face of these results.

Bloomberg could never have won. But Bloomberg may allow Trump to win a state like Virginia (where Trump lost by 4.9%), or may himself win a single state, like New York (where Sanders lost by 15.9%). If Bloomberg costs Sanders just 10 electoral votes, Trump wins.

> 



http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2016/jan/29/jennifer-granholm/jennifer-granholm-says-americans-would-rather-elec/
JENNIFER GRANHOLM SAYS AMERICANS WOULD RATHER ELECT AN ATHEIST THAN A SOCIALIST
When a Gallup poll asked about presidential candidate characteristics, "When they get to the question on, 'Would you vote for a socialist,' it is even less popular than voting for atheists."

Is Democrat Bernie Sanders going to suffer in the polls because he calls himself a socialist?

Jennifer Granholm , the former Democratic governor of Michigan and a Hillary Clinton backer , thinks so.

During the Jan. 24 edition of ABC's This Week, she said "the word socialist is a really hard word" for voters.

"Now, I love Bernie Sanders, really, I appreciate the fact that he's bringing out young people. But when you look at that word ‘socialist,’ the Gallup poll did an analysis of what are the characteristics that people would vote for in a president. 'Would you vote for a Mormon?' 'Would you vote for a Jew?' 'Would you vote for a Catholic?' When they get to the question on would you vote for an atheist, it is -- or, excuse me, a socialist, it is even less popular than voting for atheists," Granholm said. "That is why it's an issue."

Because the polls say that Sanders is giving Clinton a run for her money, we wondered whether calling yourself a socialist really carries the type of stigma that Granholm described.

We contacted Granholm's office but didn't hear back.

The Gallup poll in question is a survey of 1,527 adults in June 2015.

#1#The survey found 47 percent of respondents would vote for a socialist presidential candidate nominated by their party even if the candidate was "generally well-qualified." Fifty percent would not.#1#

An atheist candidate would be tolerable to only 58 percent, with 40 percent saying they would not vote for any atheist candidate. Here's the list:

Willingness to vote for a qualified candidate who is . . . a Catholic 93% Jewish 91% a Muslim 60% a woman 92% a Mormon 81% an atheist 58% black 92% gay or lesbian 74% a socialist 47% Hispanic 91% an evangelical Christian 73% Survey taken June 2-7, 2015

In a similar vein, a 2010 Fox News survey found that while only 39 percent of Americans would be comfortable with having an atheist on the Supreme Court, support for a socialist was even lower — 31 percent.

Yet if Americans have such antipathy to socialists, why is Sanders, a self-declared socialist, doing so well?

For one thing, Sanders makes it clear that he's not a socialist in the old Soviet Union sense. He often calls himself a democratic socialist who talks about the type of socialism seen in the Scandinavian countries, where the political system is democratic. His socialism is often in line with what would be considered strong liberal beliefs. PolitiFact explored the issue in detail in August 2015.

Scott Clifford , a political scientist as the University of Houston, said it's important to remember that each person surveyed was "asked not about support for atheists/socialists in general, but in the context of their own party nominating one."

So Democrats will be more open to socialist ideas because the party tends to be liberal, "home to secular Americans," he said.

The Republican Party tends to be home to more evangelicals and other religious traditionalists, Clifford said by email, so Republicans would be naturally wary of a nominee who is a socialist.

"After all, a Republican socialist is effectively an oxymoron in modern American politics," he said.

That was clear when Gallup broke the results into party lines.

Willingness to vote for Democrats Republicans Difference An evangelical Christian 66% 84% 18 points An atheist 64% 45% 19 points A gay or lesbian 85% 61% 24 points A Muslim 73% 45% 28 points A socialist 59% 26% 33 points

John Geer , a political scientist at Vanderbilt University, said there are a lot of misunderstandings about the term socialist, "so the survey questions you have in Gallup are probably not very indicative of the amount of support socialists might have."

The term "socialist" may lose some of its sting because Sanders offers it as a solution to voters’ concerns, such as income inequality, he said.

He is also highlighting the idea that other industrialized countries that have embraced socialism are doing better on matters such as health care, "and people are giving him high marks for dealing with the (socialist) question directly and not trying to hedge," Geer said.

Whether Sanders can change the country's aversion to actually voting for a socialist remains to be seen.

Our ruling

Granholm said a Gallup survey found that the idea of voting for a socialist for president is even less popular than voting for an atheist.

That's precisely what was found in the poll, the first time Gallup has asked about socialist presidential candidates. We rate the claim as True.

Does that matter though? Comey sent one letter that didn't contain any information, and that dominated the headlines for a week, even as he later sent another letter basically saying "nvm". Go to Breitbart.com, peruse it a bit, and then think about what they could creatively come up with to discredit Sanders, especially since it doesn't have to be true. Quibbling over 'socialism' vs. 'democratic socialism' is completely missing the point.

You also mention the debates: after each debate, Clinton had a substantial polling boost, but a few weeks later, all of that was in the back of the mind, gone. A strong showing in the debates would not have helped Sanders any more than it has helped Clinton.

Turnout might have been different, yes, that could have done it. But would it have been enough? Who knows. Additionally, Sanders might have sent more corporate interests, and hence more money, towards Trump. In conservative circles there were a lot of 'Never Trumpers' (obviously not enough to prevent a Trump victory), but with the prospect of Sanders as president many of those dinosaurs could have thrown in their lot with him anyway. It could have further boosted traditional republican turnout (I don't know, someone should look through the exit poll data). Hillary outspent Trump significantly - what would Trump have done with an enormous war chest?

#1#There are many uncertainties, and in the end I do not think it is fair to make confident predictions about what 'could have happened'.#1# [It's sometimes quite nonsensical](http://www.gallup.com/poll/123665/hillary-clinton-more-popular-barack-obama.aspx).



http://www.gallup.com/poll/123665/hillary-clinton-more-popular-barack-obama.aspx
HILLARY CLINTON NOW MORE POPULAR THAN BARACK OBAMA
Secretary of state viewed favorably by 62% of Americans, president by 56%

PRINCETON, NJ -- #1#Hillary Clinton lost the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination to Barack Obama, but in one respect she now ranks ahead of Obama.#1# The president's current favorable rating of 56% is down 22 percentage points since January. Over the same time span, Clinton's favorable rating has changed little, and now, at 62%, it exceeds Obama's.

The results are based on an Oct. 1-4 Gallup survey. The poll was conducted before Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize winner, which could have helped to improve his favorable rating over the 56% measured in the poll; however, it's not clear that any such shift would have lasted. In the first days after the prize's announcement, Obama's presidential job approval rating noticeably increased, but it has since retreated to its prior level.

"Clinton's current favorable rating ranks among her best in the 17 years Gallup has polled Americans about her."

The change in the relative popularity of Clinton and Obama since January may reflect the realities of their new roles. Obama came into office as president with a 78% favorable rating, among the highest Gallup has measured since it began tracking favorability in 1992. But after nearly nine months in office in which he has made or confronted difficult decisions -- ranging from the economic stimulus package, to the auto industry bailout, to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to health insurance reform, Obama's support has declined. His favorable rating now stands at 56%, and has fallen 10 points just since the last reading, in July. (Obama's job approval rating has followed a similar downward trajectory.)

The 56% favorable rating for Obama is his lowest since late 2007, when he had a 53% favorable rating, but at that time, 13% of Americans did not have an opinion of him. The current 40% unfavorable rating for Obama is his highest, and thus his most negative such rating to date.

Meanwhile, Clinton has helped advance Obama's foreign policy around the world, but in a far less prominent role than the president's. Now operating in a much less bright spotlight than Obama does, the former first lady's and U.S. senator's favorable rating remains strong at 62%, little changed since she became secretary of state.

Clinton's current favorable rating ranks among her best in the 17 years Gallup has polled Americans about her. Her highest favorable rating of 67% came in late December 1998, just after her husband, President Bill Clinton, was impeached by the U.S. House of Representatives.

Partisan Views of Clinton and Obama

Clinton and Obama are about equally appreciated by Democrats -- 91% currently have favorable opinions of Clinton and 89% have favorable views of Obama. They fare about equally among independents, but Republicans have more positive views of Clinton (35%) than of Obama (19%).

Republicans' more positive views of Clinton relative to Obama mark a reversal since January, when Republican ratings of Obama (60%) were much more positive than those of Clinton (35%). Thus, Obama's favorable rating has declined 41 points among Republicans since January, while Clinton's has not moved at all.

Independents' opinions of Obama have also soured, from 75% favorable to 52%. There have been only minor declines in Democrats' opinions of Obama.

Get Gallup news on Facebook and Twitter

Survey Methods

Results are based on telephone interviews with 1,013 national adults, aged 18 and older, conducted Oct. 1-4, 2009. For results based on the total sample of national adults, one can say with 95% confidence that the maximum margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points.

Interviews are conducted with respondents on land-line telephones (for respondents with a land-line telephone) and cellular phones (for respondents who are cell-phone only).

In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls.

Don't forget, #1#Bernie also wrote an essay that one could describe as a "rape fantasy"#1# He would have been dragged into the mud with Trump just like Hillary was. http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained



http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained
THE BERNIE SANDERS 'RAPE FANTASY' ESSAY, EXPLAINED
The Bernie Sanders 'Rape Fantasy' Essay, Explained

Enlarge this image toggle caption Win McNamee/Getty Images Win McNamee/Getty Images

Mother Jones dug up a 1972 essay that Bernie Sanders wrote for the Vermont Freeman, an alternative newspaper. The article, called, "Man-and-Woman," is a commentary on gender roles. But it's also caused a stir, as is bound to happen anytime a candidate mentions rape.

If you haven't been following the hubbub, read on for a rundown of what the controversy is all about.

So what did Bernie Sanders write and what did he say about rape?

#1#The essay by the Vermont senator, who officially kicked off his presidential campaign this week, isn't long — only a page. Warning: The bit about rape comes at the very beginning, as does some not-totally-safe-for-work language:#1#

"A man goes home and masturbates his typical fantasy. A woman on her knees, a woman tied up, a woman abused. "A woman enjoys intercourse with her man — as she fantasizes being raped by 3 men simultaneously. "The man and woman get dressed up on Sunday — and go to Church, or maybe to their 'revolutionary' political meeting. "Have you ever looked at the Stag, Man, Hero, Tough magazines on the shelf of your local bookstore? Do you know why the newspaper with the articles like 'Girl 12 raped by 14 men' sell so well? To what in us are they appealing?"

Sanders then goes on to explain his ideas about gender roles and eventually gets at a sharper point — that traditional gender roles help create troubling dynamics in men's and women's sex lives.

"Many women seem to be walking a tightrope," he writes, as their "qualities of love, openness, and gentleness were too deeply enmeshed with qualities of dependency, subservience, and masochism."

He adds that men, likewise, are confused:

"What is it they want from a woman? Are they at fault? Are they perpetrating this man-woman situation? Are they oppressors?"

One way to read the essay is that Sanders was doing (in a supremely ham-handed way) what journalists do every day: draw the reader in with an attention-getting lede, then get to the meat of the article in the middle. Though he only sticks to his larger point for three paragraphs before getting back to his fictional couple, ending the essay with an imagined conversation:

"And she said, 'You wanted me not as a woman, or a lover, or a friend, but as a submissive woman, or submissive friend, or submissive lover...' "And he said, 'You're full of ______.' "And they never again made love together (which they had each liked to do more than anything) or never saw each other one more time."

What has the Sanders campaign said?

The Sanders campaign quickly tried to distance itself — and the candidate — from the 43-year-old essay. Campaign spokesman Michael Briggs called the essay a "dumb attempt at dark satire in an alternative publication" in an interview with CNN, adding that it "in no way reflects his views or record on women." He added, "It was intended to attack gender stereotypes of the '70s, but it looks as stupid today as it was then."

So what does this say about Sanders' attitude toward women?

You can draw divergent conclusions from the article itself. On the one hand, he's talking about liberating people from harmful gender norms. On the other, with his nameless hypothetical "man-and-woman" characters, he also seems to imply that men fantasize about raping women or that women fantasize about being raped.

The 2016 presidential field has been quiet about it, but conservative Erick Erickson jeered at Sanders supporters on Twitter.

Meanwhile, Bill Kristol and Town Hall's Katie Pavlich turned the essay on Bill Clinton, using it as an opening to mention past allegations of sexual misconduct on his part.

National Review writer Charles C.W. Cooke, though, dismissed the essay as insignificant:

"Nobody honestly believes that Bernie Sanders is a sexual pervert or that he is a misogynist or that he intends to do women any harm. Nobody suspects that he harbors a secret desire to pass intrusive legislation or to cut gang rapists a break. Really, there is only one reason that anyone would make hay of this story, and that is to damage the man politically."

Rather than criticize Sanders for something he wrote long ago, Cooke added, "until I see any sign of actual wrongdoing I'd much prefer to slam Sanders for his dangerous and ridiculous politics than to delve back into his past and embarrass him with a long-forgotten opinion."

Looking at his political life, it's true that Sanders' record shows an ongoing concern for women's rights. Katie McDonough at left-leaning Salon.com compiled a list of measures Sanders has supported or sponsored to protect women from violence and sexual assault.

Are there any lessons to draw from this?

Absolutely: if you're a politician — especially on the national level — everything you've ever written, said, or done can, and likely will, be dredged up for all the world to inspect and critique.

It's not the first time writings from long ago have resurfaced to be used against a candidate. Republican Bob McDonnell's 20-year-old thesis about his views on women was also used as a cudgel against him in his bid for governor of Virginia in 2009.

When Louisiana Republican Gov. Bobby Jindal's name began to surface as a potential vice-presidential candidate in 2012, the political world began writing about his 1994 essay about an exorcism he says he witnessed. (See here and here.) That, by the way, is sure to come up again if he runs in 2016 or any time in the future.

Many candidates have also faced plagiarism charges, like Democratic Sen. John Walsh of Montana, who dropped out of his re-election race last year after the New York Times reported he had lifted portions of the final paper he wrote to get his master's degree.

Vice President Joe Biden admitted in 1987 to cribbing a speech from a British politician, but said it wasn't "malevolent." In 2008, the Clinton campaign accused Barack Obama of lifting lines from his friend, then-Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick.

And then there are the countless officials who have been embarrassed in the media for sexual impropriety, including the aforementioned Bill Clinton. Eliot Spitzer. Anthony Weiner. David Vitter. John Ensign. Chris Lee. Vito Fossella. Mark Foley. Dennis Hastert.

It's not just elected officials — consider the flap over past comments in which now-Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor described herself as a "wise Latina." It's not plagiarism or an affair, but it created a headache for her during confirmation hearings.

The scrutiny is part of why so many people want nothing to do with the white hot spotlight that comes with running for office.

#1#As you predicted at the end of your statement, they already do this.#1# Here is a short list: http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions

As you can see, the punishments are pretty steep, including heavy fines, and forfeiture of assets including entire buildings.

The main problem with concentrating efforts on the employers is that they have to "knowingly" hire them as illegals, which is hard to prove unless the employer is doing a large campaign to do so (as in the examples in the link). If you have a couple illegals out of 150 employees, it's pretty easy for a lawyer to just say they did their due diligence, but a few just "fell between the cracks."

In addition, there aren't many people who are incentivized to report. The immigrant isn't going to report himself, and the employer sure as hell isn't either. A legal employee at the same company might do so, but it'll be his job on the line as well. It's just easier for that guy to tell the authorities about a one or two illegals at his company, than to take out the entire company, and lose his own job in the process.



http://www.fairus.org/issue/employer-sanctions
FEDERATION FOR AMERICAN IMMIGRATION REFORM
March 2016

The greatest incentive for illegal aliens to come to the United States is to find work. If there are no employers willing to hire them, then the flood of illegal aliens will subside. #1#The Immigration and Reform Act of 1986 outlawed hiring illegal alien workers, although common practice has proven that measure ineffective for two reasons:#1#

The law requires proof that the employer knowingly hired the illegal worker. The prevalence of fake documents make it difficult to prove the employer knew that the employee’s work documents were not legitimate.

Historically, immigration law enforcement has been the exclusive province of federal law enforcement, but states are increasingly joining with the federal government in that effort and enacting legislation to punish employers for hiring violations. On January 1, 2008, an employer sanctions law took affect in Arizona. Business owners face the nation's first state law that requires employers to verify the work documents of their new employees. The law says any business that knowingly hires a worker who is in the country illegally will have its business license suspended. For a second offense, the business' license could be revoked. That is different from the federal penalties of fines and possible criminal prosecution that have been infrequently imposed for similar offenses.

The information below is taken from news sources. Each party in the report either confessed or was convicted of knowingly hiring illegal aliens. These cases are listed to illustrate the widespread abuse and increased prosecution of companies employing illegal aliens towards the end of the Bush Administration. Prosecutions that have continued in the Obama Administration are largely the culmination of investigations begun before the change in administration. For a discussion of current policy see Interior Immigration Enforcement — Musical Chairs.

> Had both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared headed toward victory in the Republican and Democratic presidential primaries, Mr. Bloomberg was determined to run, according to his advisers, several of whom insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about confidential discussions.

[Source from the *New York Times*](http://nytimes.com/2016/03/08/us/politics/michael-bloomberg-not-running-for-president.html)

#1#Even if Bloomberg takes a few red states, as long as Sanders can't get over 270 - which will be nearly impossible if Bloomberg wins a single blue state, or splits the vote enough to allow Trump to win a single blueish state like Virginia - Trump wins via the House.#1# Even if the House won't vote for Trump, which I find unlikely, Sanders still won't win. 



http://nytimes.com/2016/03/08/us/politics/michael-bloomberg-not-running-for-president.html
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG SAYS HE WON’T RUN FOR PRESIDENT
Torn between his aspiration and a mountain of data showing that the path for an independent campaign aimed at the political center was slim and narrowing, Mr. Bloomberg, 74, ultimately abandoned what would probably have been his last chance to run for the White House.

Had both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared headed toward victory in the Republican and Democratic presidential primaries, Mr. Bloomberg was determined to run, according to his advisers, several of whom insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about confidential discussions.

But Mr. Bloomberg balked at the prospect of a race against Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton, who has established a dominant lead over Mr. Sanders on the Democratic side. In his column, Mr. Bloomberg said he could not in good conscience enter a race that could lead to a deadlock in the Electoral College — and to the election of Mr. Trump, or perhaps Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.

Mr. Bloomberg’s decision brings a new measure of clarity to a race that has come sharply into focus in recent weeks, and reflects both Mrs. Clinton’s tightening grip on the Democratic contest and the growing alarm among mainstream political and business leaders about Mr. Trump’s populist insurgency.

Mr. Trump is widely seen as a weak general election candidate, and surveys conducted for Mr. Bloomberg bolstered that perception. Mr. Bloomberg’s veteran pollster, Douglas E. Schoen, gauged his prospects in polls in February and March, testing Mr. Bloomberg as a candidate nationally and in 22 crucial states.

At the outset, about two-fifths of the country had no familiarity with Mr. Bloomberg, who may be best known nationally for his support of expanded gun control legislation. But Mr. Schoen’s February polling found that after voters heard mostly favorable descriptions of Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders, Mr. Bloomberg collected 35 percent of the vote and a solid lead in the Electoral College. In a race against Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, however, Mr. Bloomberg faced far tougher odds.

#1#The most favorable result for Mr. Bloomberg might have been a stalemate in the Electoral College, with no candidate capable of taking the 270 votes required. Under those conditions, the House of Representatives, where Republicans hold a majority, would choose the president.#1#

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A second poll, taken by Mr. Schoen from Feb. 28 to March 1, found that Mr. Trump was bleeding support with general election voters after a flailing debate performance and a disastrous interview in which he failed to disavow Mr. Duke’s support.

Photo

Still, the poll found Mr. Bloomberg could overtake Mr. Trump and fall short of eclipsing Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that cold math in his column. “I believe I could win a number of diverse states,” he wrote, “but not enough to win the 270 Electoral College votes necessary to win the presidency.”

By opting not to run, Mr. Bloomberg is deactivating a political apparatus far more extensive than the one he assembled the last time he seriously weighed a run for president, in 2008. In private conversations, Mr. Bloomberg appeared far more enthusiastic about running now, and he laid out his ambitions in conversations with leaders including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain.

Aides planned an elaborate campaign to introduce him to the electorate, and consulted with Milton Glaser, the architect of the “I Love New York” campaign, and the Swedish-born designer Thomas Meyerhoffer, of California, to work on logos.

His messaging would have stressed Mr. Bloomberg’s identity as a self-made man and a problem solver not beholden to either party. A draft of his website carried the slogan, “All Work and No Party.” One logo, etched in purple, read simply: “Fix It.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A rough cut of a presidential campaign ad described Mr. Bloomberg as the product of middle-class Medford, Mass., who built a multibillion-dollar enterprise from scratch. It cast Mr. Bloomberg as a philanthropist who had given generously to fight deadly diseases, and highlighted his experience managing New York’s security after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

“Finally, a new choice,” the commercial’s narrator says. “Independent Mike Bloomberg: President.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trevor Potter, the election lawyer who was counsel to Senator John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign, was retained to assemble legal teams to handle local and state ballot-access issues, and address constitutional questions that could arise from an inconclusive result in the Electoral College.

A ballot-access consultant, Michael Arno, leased nearly a dozen offices in Texas and North Carolina to begin gathering signatures to place Mr. Bloomberg on the ballot in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.

For Mr. Bloomberg, the decision drops the curtain on a long-held dream.

In announcing it, Mr. Bloomberg said he expected to serve in other ways. “For most Americans, citizenship requires little more than paying taxes,” he wrote. “But many have given their lives to defend our nation — and all of us have an obligation as voters to stand up on behalf of ideas and principles that, as Lincoln said, represent ‘the last best hope of earth.’

“I hope and pray I’m doing that,” he wrote.

#1#If someone is not motivated enough to vote, forcing them to vote won't help the country.#1# The people who don't vote are the ones that do not follow politics. All they will see are 30 second ads vilifying one candidate or another. They are easily swayed and don't care enough to learn about the issues.

[Mike Rowe has a fantastic letter about this and I highly recommend you reading.](http://www.outdoorhub.com/news/2016/10/12/mike-rowe-shares-wise-opinion-voting/)

Edit: Full text for the lazy:

>Hey Mike, I have nothing but respect for you. Your no-nonsense outlook and incredible eloquence have really had a profound impact in my life. Can you please encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election? I would never impose on you by asking you to advocate one politician over another, but I do feel this election could really use your help. I know that there are many people out there who feel like there is nothing they can do. Please try to use your gifts to make them see that they can do something – that their vote counts.

>Hi Jeremy

>Thanks for the kind words. I appreciate it. I also share your concern for our country, and agree wholeheartedly that every vote counts. However, I’m afraid I can’t encourage millions of people whom I’ve never met to just run out and cast a ballot, simply because they have the right to vote. That would be like encouraging everyone to buy an AR-15, simply because they have the right to bear arms. I would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement. For instance, do they know how to care for a weapon? Can they afford the cost of the weapon? Do they have a history of violence? Are they mentally stable? In short, are they responsible citizens?

>Casting a ballot is not so different. It’s an important right that we all share, and one that impacts our society in dramatic fashion. But it’s one thing to respect and acknowledge our collective rights, and quite another thing to affirmatively encourage people I’ve never met to exercise them. And yet, my friends in Hollywood do that very thing, and they’re at it again.

>Every four years, celebrities and movie stars look earnestly into the camera and tell the country to “get out and vote.” They tell us it’s our “most important civic duty,” and they speak as if the very act of casting a ballot is more important than the outcome of the election. This strikes me as somewhat hysterical. Does anyone actually believe that Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen DeGeneres, and Ed Norton would encourage the “masses” to vote, if they believed the “masses” would elect Donald Trump?

>Regardless of their political agenda, my celebrity pals are fundamentally mistaken about our “civic duty” to vote. There is simply no such thing. Voting is a right, not a duty, and not a moral obligation. Like all rights, the right to vote comes with some responsibilities, but lets face it – the bar is not set very high. If you believe aliens from another planet walk among us, you are welcome at the polls. If you believe the world is flat, and the moon landing was completely staged, you are invited to cast a ballot. Astrologists, racists, ghost-hunters, sexists, and people who rely upon a Magic 8 Ball to determine their daily wardrobe are all allowed to participate. In fact, and to your point, they’re encouraged.

>The undeniable reality is this: our right to vote does not require any understanding of current events, or any awareness of how our government works. So, when a celebrity reminds the country that “everybody’s vote counts,” they are absolutely correct. But when they tell us that “everybody in the country should get out there and vote,” regardless of what they think or believe, I gotta wonder what they’re smoking.

>Look at our current candidates. No one appears to like either one of them. Their approval ratings are at record lows. It’s not about who you like more, it’s about who you hate less. Sure, we can blame the media, the system, and the candidates themselves, but let’s be honest – Donald and Hillary are there because we put them there. The electorate has tolerated the intolerable. We’ve treated this entire process like the final episode of American Idol. What did we expect?

>So no, Jeremy – I can’t personally encourage everyone in the country to run out and vote. I wouldn’t do it, even if I thought it would benefit my personal choice. Because the truth is, the country doesn’t need voters who have to be cajoled, enticed, or persuaded to cast a ballot. We need voters who wish to participate in the process. So if you really want me to say something political, how about this – read more.

>Spend a few hours every week studying American history, human nature, and economic theory. Start with “Economics in One Lesson.” Then try Keynes. Then Hayek. Then Marx. Then Hegel. Develop a worldview that you can articulate as well as defend. Test your theory with people who disagree with you. Debate. Argue. Adjust your philosophy as necessary. Then, when the next election comes around, cast a vote for the candidate whose worldview seems most in line with your own.

>Or, don’t. None of the freedoms spelled out in our Constitution were put there so people could cast uninformed ballots out of some misplaced sense of civic duty brought on by a celebrity guilt-trip. The right to assemble, to protest, to speak freely – these rights were included to help assure that the best ideas and the best candidates would emerge from the most transparent process possible.

>Remember – there’s nothing virtuous or patriotic about voting just for the sake of voting, and the next time someone tells you otherwise, do me a favor – ask them who they’re voting for. Then tell them you’re voting for their opponent. Then, see if they’ll give you a ride to the polls.

>In the meantime, dig into “Economics in One Lesson,” by Henry Hazlitt. It sounds like a snooze but it really is a page turner, and you can download it for free.

>Mike



http://www.outdoorhub.com/news/2016/10/12/mike-rowe-shares-wise-opinion-voting/
MIKE ROWE SHARES HIS WISE OPINION ON VOTING
Mike Rowe was asked by a fan to help out with this year’s election by encouraging his following to go out and vote. Mike’s response to this request was nothing short of perfect. What he offered instead was wisdom and a completely different outlook on this issue. Check out the exchange below.

Hey Mike, I have nothing but respect for you. Your no-nonsense outlook and incredible eloquence have really had a profound impact in my life. Can you please encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election? I would never impose on you by asking you to advocate one politician over another, but I do feel this election could really use your help. I know that there are many people out there who feel like there is nothing they can do. Please try to use your gifts to make them see that they can do something – that their vote counts.

Hi Jeremy

Thanks for the kind words. I appreciate it. I also share your concern for our country, and agree wholeheartedly that every vote counts. However, I’m afraid I can’t encourage millions of people whom I’ve never met to just run out and cast a ballot, simply because they have the right to vote. That would be like encouraging everyone to buy an AR-15, simply because they have the right to bear arms. I would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement. For instance, do they know how to care for a weapon? Can they afford the cost of the weapon? Do they have a history of violence? Are they mentally stable? In short, are they responsible citizens?

Casting a ballot is not so different. It’s an important right that we all share, and one that impacts our society in dramatic fashion. But it’s one thing to respect and acknowledge our collective rights, and quite another thing to affirmatively encourage people I’ve never met to exercise them. And yet, my friends in Hollywood do that very thing, and they’re at it again.

Every four years, celebrities and movie stars look earnestly into the camera and tell the country to “get out and vote.” They tell us it’s our “most important civic duty,” and they speak as if the very act of casting a ballot is more important than the outcome of the election. This strikes me as somewhat hysterical. Does anyone actually believe that Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen DeGeneres, and Ed Norton would encourage the “masses” to vote, if they believed the “masses” would elect Donald Trump?

Regardless of their political agenda, my celebrity pals are fundamentally mistaken about our “civic duty” to vote. There is simply no such thing. Voting is a right, not a duty, and not a moral obligation. Like all rights, the right to vote comes with some responsibilities, but lets face it – the bar is not set very high. If you believe aliens from another planet walk among us, you are welcome at the polls. If you believe the world is flat, and the moon landing was completely staged, you are invited to cast a ballot. Astrologists, racists, ghost-hunters, sexists, and people who rely upon a Magic 8 Ball to determine their daily wardrobe are all allowed to participate. In fact, and to your point, they’re encouraged.

The undeniable reality is this: our right to vote does not require any understanding of current events, or any awareness of how our government works. So, when a celebrity reminds the country that “everybody’s vote counts,” they are absolutely correct. But when they tell us that “everybody in the country should get out there and vote,” regardless of what they think or believe, I gotta wonder what they’re smoking.

Look at our current candidates. No one appears to like either one of them. Their approval ratings are at record lows. It’s not about who you like more, it’s about who you hate less. Sure, we can blame the media, the system, and the candidates themselves, but let’s be honest – Donald and Hillary are there because we put them there. The electorate has tolerated the intolerable. We’ve treated this entire process like the final episode of American Idol. What did we expect?

So no, Jeremy – I can’t personally encourage everyone in the country to run out and vote. I wouldn’t do it, even if I thought it would benefit my personal choice. Because the truth is, #1#the country doesn’t need voters who have to be cajoled, enticed, or persuaded to cast a ballot#1#. We need voters who wish to participate in the process. So if you really want me to say something political, how about this – read more.

Spend a few hours every week studying American history, human nature, and economic theory. Start with “Economics in One Lesson.” Then try Keynes. Then Hayek. Then Marx. Then Hegel. Develop a worldview that you can articulate as well as defend. Test your theory with people who disagree with you. Debate. Argue. Adjust your philosophy as necessary. Then, when the next election comes around, cast a vote for the candidate whose worldview seems most in line with your own.

Or, don’t. None of the freedoms spelled out in our Constitution were put there so people could cast uninformed ballots out of some misplaced sense of civic duty brought on by a celebrity guilt-trip. The right to assemble, to protest, to speak freely – these rights were included to help assure that the best ideas and the best candidates would emerge from the most transparent process possible.

Remember – there’s nothing virtuous or patriotic about voting just for the sake of voting, and the next time someone tells you otherwise, do me a favor – ask them who they’re voting for. Then tell them you’re voting for their opponent. Then, see if they’ll give you a ride to the polls.

In the meantime, dig into “Economics in One Lesson,” by Henry Hazlitt. It sounds like a snooze but it really is a page turner, and you can download it for free.

Mike

I think Bernie stood a much better chance for a few simple reasons.

-Hillary Clinton is hated by a large segment of the population. #1#Whereas Bernie is far and away the most [popular]#1#(http://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2016/09/most_and_least-liked_us_senato.html) senator in the US.

-He promoted economic populism, whereas she promoted more-or-less a continuance of the same old.

-He has no baggage surrounding him, no scandals, no sign that he was hiding anything.

-He spoke directly to the working class white males directly, and reached out to conservative voters. I don't remember Hillary visiting Alabama or Louisiana to campaign.

-He was wildly popular, he had people raving about *policy* not personal attacks, whereas Hillary couldn't fire up a crowd if her life depended on it.

-He was huge with every demographic except minorities, specifically black Americans,  who he was making inroads with.

-But mostly, nobody likes Clinton. Nobody trusts her. In a year where, literally all over the world, people are saying eff-you to every establishment political order all over the world, Clinton was the most establishment candidate that you could field. Anywhere. In spite of what they tell you, we haven't recovered from the so called Great Recession, people are still hurting. And at some point to people you have to burn the system down to get your point across. To tell them that your way isn't working. Bernie was inspiring left version, now we have to deal with violent right version.

Edit:

I also want to remind you that Bernie won MI, WI, and very nearly Iowa. All states that Clinton should've beaten Bernie in handily. They showed how weak she was in the midwest. Nobody thought he'd do well in MI until he won it in an upset. The proverbial canary in the coal mine, and everybody ignored it.



http://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2016/09/most_and_least-liked_us_senato.html
MOST AND LEAST-LIKED U.S. SENATORS: APPROVAL RATINGS FOR ALABAMA'S JEFF SESSIONS AND RICHARD SHELBY
When it comes to U.S. Senators, people in Vermont are feeling the Bern.

#1#Bernie Sanders, an Independent from Vermont and former Democratic presidential candidate, had the highest approval rating among his constituents, according to a Morning Consult poll released Tuesday.#1# Sander's approval rating was 87 percent, 18 points higher than second most-popular Senator Susan Collins, R-ME.

Here are the 10 Senators with the highest approval ratings among their constituents:

Bernie Sanders, I-VT - 87 percent approval Susan Collins, R-ME - 69 percent approval John Thune, R-SD - 68 percent approval Thomas Carper, D-DE - 66 percent approval Patrick Leahy, D-VT - 66 percent approval Lisa Murkowski, R-AK - 65 percent approval Brian Schatz, D-HI - 64 percent approval Charles Schumer, D-NY - 64 percent approval John Hoeven, R-ND - 63 percent approval John Reed, D-RI - 63 percent approval

Here are the 10 Senators with the highest disapproval ratings among their constituents:



Mitch McConnell, R-KY - 51 percent disapproval Pat Roberts, R-KS - 43 percent disapproval Harry Reid, D-NV - 43 percent disapproval John McCain, R-AZ - 42 percent disapproval Marco Rubio, R-FL - 41 percent disapproval Lindsey Graham, R-SC - 40 percent disapproval David Vitter, R-LA - 39 percent disapproval Mark Kirk, R-IL - 38 percent disapproval Richard Durbin, D-IL - 38 percent disapproval Claire McCaskill, D-MO - 38 percent disapproval

Of the bottom 10, only Durbin and McCaskill had approval ratings (41 percent and 46 percent, respectively) higher than their disapproval rating.

Alabama Senators

According to the Morning Consult, Alabama's Senior Senator, Republican Richard Shelby, had an approval rating of 55 percent with a disapproval rating of 28 percent. Seventeen percent weren't sure.

Fifty-four percent said they approved of the job of Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions is doing, with 26 percent disapproving and 21 percent unsure.

Comparing the approval ratings, Shelby comes in at 30th on the list and Sessions at 35th.

The rankings were based on interviews with almost 72,000 registered voters with representation from each state.

I'm going to premise this by saying that I think Bernie is a generally good person, but I think people are wearing rose tinted glasses in evaluating if he would have won the general if he had been the democratic nom. Below, I lay out 3 arguments why I don't think he would have won/outperformed Clinton.

**Hillary went easy on Bernie in the primaries, and he would have had more scandals in the general**

There's a ton of information about Bernie that Hillary didn't bring up because it wouldn't be useful in front of a democratic audience. However, in the general, these things could be devastating. Namely, his #1#[honeymoon in the USSR,]#1# (http://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-02-11/how-bernie-sanders-spent-his-soviet-honeymoon) his essay about #2#[rape fantasies,]#2# (http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/29/410606045/the-bernie-sanders-rape-fantasy-essay-explained) and the fact that he's a #3#[career politician who's worked for government for 40 years]#3# (http://www.inquisitr.com/3371682/bernie-sanders-is-a-career-politician-not-a-revolutionary). He would be very easy to paint as a socialist, which is still in a boogeyman among the white working class/rural voters that he could theoretically pull that Clinton couldn't. It would also be a harder challenge to pull Republican women because both of those things listed above.


**He wouldn't have inspired black/hispanic turnout.**

#4#The primary reason Clinton won overwhelmingly in the primary is because of [black and hispanic turnout]#4#(http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/06/2016-bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-democrats-race-racial-divide-213948). She's built inroads with those communities for decades. 

However, in the general, #5#she [failed to energize]#5# (http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/08/politics/first-exit-polls-2016/) those 2 groups sufficiently to win. If she failed to capture that core Democratic group, than there's no reason Sanders would have sufficiently closed that gap to overwhelm the turnout that Trump would inspire among rural americans.

**He would not be able to capture Trump voters because he doesn't tap into racial anxiety, and actually causes religious anxiety**

Bernie sanders doesn't scape goat minorities, LGBT, or refugees.Unfortunately #6#[this is what many trump voters wanted to see]#6# (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/06/06/racial-anxiety-is-a-huge-driver-of-support-for-donald-trump-two-new-studies-find/). As a result, he probably would not have peeled off enough cultural Trump voters to overcome Trump's lead.

#7#He also faces the challenge of being Jewish, which I believe would probably alienate him from a few points of the Black and Hispanic vote, [which tend to be relatively religious]#7# (https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos). It's unfortunate, but true that I think he would've faced discrimination for this from muslim and christian democrats.


Based on these factors, I don't see him flipping any states that Clinton failed to win, and as a result, probably doing equally as badly or worse than her.
_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



https://news.virginia.edu/content/sociologist-faith-family-friendly-force-african-americans-and-latinos
SOCIOLOGIST: ‘FAITH IS A FAMILY-FRIENDLY FORCE’ FOR AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND LATINOS
“By 2050, a majority of Americans will be minorities. Yet scholars know little about faith and family life among non-white Americans,” said University of Virginia sociologist W. Bradford Wilcox.

But he and collaborator Nicholas H. Wolfinger of the University of Utah have found that African-American and Latino couples who attend church together experience happier relationships and family life. They make the case in their new book, “Soul Mates: Religion, Sex, Love, and Marriage Among African Americans and Latinos” – the first study of religion and family life among blacks and Latinos, the authors say.

#7#Faith can furnish a beneficial, sturdy path for African-Americans and Latinos, who tend to face more challenges than other Americans – from racism to poverty, Wilcox and Wolfinger found.#7# Religion doesn’t offer a magic pill for successful living, but church participation is clearly associated with positive outcomes in relationships and family life. This bears out even in the midst of lower marriage rates and higher cohabiting rates among blacks and Latinos, as well as among whites.

Pursuing the question “Is religion achieving success in creating the conditions where relationships, marriages and families can flourish in black and Latino communities?” Wilcox and Wolfinger analyzed six national data sets and conducted more than a hundred interviews in several cities. They included information from Wilcox’s year (2005-2006) of fieldwork in Harlem, Brooklyn and the Bronx, during which time he visited churches and spoke with clergy and parishioners.

“One big reason so many families of color are thriving is that they tend to be more religious than the average American,” said Wilcox, director of the National Marriage Project. An estimated 50,000 congregations serve blacks and Latinos in the United States, where 36 percent of African-Americans and 29 percent of Latinos attend church frequently (several times a month or more).

“Our book shows that churches are achieving an important measure of success in fostering lower rates of non-marital childbearing, more marriage, and happier relationships among blacks and Latinos,” the authors write. Unmarried churchgoers are also more likely to get married compared to similar couples who do not regularly darken the door of a church, they write.

When it comes to “family values,” a clear majority of blacks and Latinos value marriage more than single living, and most will marry at some point in their lives. In fact, 56 percent of blacks and 68 percent of Latinos feel it is better to be married than to be single, compared to 54 percent of whites. Wilcox and Wolfinger consider social, cultural, historical and economic factors that help and hinder marriage and its stability.

“Soul Mates” found that 80 percent of Latinos report being happy in their relationships when both partners attend church, compared to 71 percent for Latino couples who don’t go to church. With black couples, 78 percent who attended church reported being happy while the figure for non-church going couples drops to 69 percent. (The figures for white couples are 79 percent and 70 percent, respectively.)

Another point Wilcox emphasized is the influence of religion on men.

He and Wolfinger argue that “shared faith supplies moral, social and spiritual solidarity and that religion seems especially important in turning men’s hearts and minds toward their wives or partners.” Churches foster an ethic of care and reinforce a code of decency, they write.

They define “code of decency” as “hard work, lawful behavior, temperance, and sexual fidelity in married and unmarried relationships.”

“Religious faith makes for better men,” Wilcox said. “Black and Latino men who attend church are more likely to be employed, to steer clear of substance abuse, and to avoid incarceration. This men’s effect lends indirect support to higher quality family relationships among black and Latino families.” In fact, young men of color are about 30 percent less likely to end up idle (out of work and out of school) if they are regular churchgoers, compared to their peers who are not regular churchgoers.

Because of these findings, the authors conclude that religion is a family-friendly force among African-Americans and Latinos.

This is just sad so I'll just point out that every bit of data shows #1#Hillary caused the loss of Black and Latino votes#1#, so on this particular subject you are utterly wrong.

http://www.businessinsider.com/exit-polls-show-clinton-underperformed-with-black-and-hispanic-voters-2016-11

#2#Meanwhile Trump's support from these groups was actually an improvement for the GOP.#2#

http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/2016-election-day/trump-did-better-blacks-hispanics-romney-12-exit-polls-n681386

In fact Trump did better with every group except for white men and 'other'.

You're wrong about literally everything else except the correct spelling, but I'm not going to waste my time. HRC is now the biggest national disgrace of all time, and the most unpopular candidate in polling history.

The fact that your terrible campaign's shrieking about scandals had little to no effect on Trump whatsoever is proof that no-one would have listened to the elitist ramblings against Bernie Sanders. #3#He would've crushed your garbage cheating warmonger, and then Trump easily.#3#

http://www.carlbeijer.com/2016/05/you-have-choice.html

#4#even media owned by relatives of donald trump now acknowledges it:#4# http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

#5#If you don't recognize this is the truth soon, you'll soon be on your way to failing again in 2020.#5#

https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/



http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

#1#Reading fiction [helps one develop empathy]#1#(https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/novel-finding-reading-literary-fiction-improves-empathy/) for others. Given the context of a divisive political environment I think it's an important skill for everyone to cherish.



https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/novel-finding-reading-literary-fiction-improves-empathy/
NOVEL FINDING: READING LITERARY FICTION IMPROVES EMPATHY
How important is reading fiction in socializing school children? #1#Researchers at The New School in New York City have found evidence that literary fiction improves a reader’s capacity to understand what others are thinking and feeling.#1#

Emanuele Castano, a social psychologist, along with PhD candidate David Kidd conducted five studies in which they divided a varying number of participants (ranging from 86 to 356) and gave them different reading assignments: excerpts from genre (or popular) fiction, literary fiction, nonfiction or nothing. After they finished the excerpts the participants took a test that measured their ability to infer and understand other people’s thoughts and emotions. The researchers found, to their surprise, a significant difference between the literary- and genre-fiction readers.

When study participants read non-fiction or nothing, their results were unimpressive. When they read excerpts of genre fiction, such as Danielle Steel’s The Sins of the Mother, their test results were dually insignificant. However, when they read literary fiction, such as The Round House by Louise Erdrich, their test results improved markedly—and, by implication, so did their capacity for empathy. The study was published October 4 in Science.

The results are consistent with what literary criticism has to say about the two genres—and indeed, this may be the first empirical evidence linking literary and psychological theories of fiction. Popular fiction tends to portray situations that are otherworldly and follow a formula to take readers on a roller-coaster ride of emotions and exciting experiences. Although the settings and situations are grand, the characters are internally consistent and predictable, which tends to affirm the reader’s expectations of others. It stands to reason that popular fiction does not expand the capacity to empathize.

Literary fiction, by contrast, focuses more on the psychology of characters and their relationships. “Often those characters’ minds are depicted vaguely, without many details, and we’re forced to fill in the gaps to understand their intentions and motivations,” Kidd says. This genre prompts the reader to imagine the characters’ introspective dialogues. This psychological awareness carries over into the real world, which is full of complicated individuals whose inner lives are usually difficult to fathom. Although literary fiction tends to be more realistic than popular fiction, the characters disrupt reader expectations, undermining prejudices and stereotypes. They support and teach us values about social behavior, such as the importance of understanding those who are different from ourselves.

The results suggest that reading fiction is a valuable socializing influence. The study data couldinform debates over how much fiction should be included in educational curricula and whether reading programs should be implemented in prisons, where reading literary fiction might improve inmates’ social functioning and empathy. Castano also hopes the finding will encourage autistic people to engage in more literary fiction, in the hope it could improve their ability to empathize without the side effects of medication.

> Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that. No black person will be president again any time soon.

#1#[Snopes says that is untrue]#1#(http://www.snopes.com/trump-laziness-is-a-trait-in-blacks).

Regardless, I am not arguing "Trump is not a racist" or "Trump is a good candidate". I am arguing that calling him racist and being smug and condescending is a poor strategy.





http://www.snopes.com/trump-laziness-is-a-trait-in-blacks
TRUMP: 'LAZINESS IS A TRAIT IN BLACKS; NO BLACK PRESIDENT AGAIN ANY TIME SOON'
CLAIM

Donald Trump said, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that. No black person will be president again any time soon." See Example( s )

EXAMPLES Collected via Facebook, August 2016

MIXTURE

RATING

MIXTURE

WHAT'S TRUE

Donald Trump once tweeted, "Sadly, because president Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won't see another black president for generations!"

WHAT'S FALSE

Trump did not utter the full statement, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that ... No black person will be president again any time soon."

#1#WHAT'S UNDETERMINED

Whether Trump ever said, "Laziness is a trait in blacks ... I believe that."#1#

ORIGIN

An Internet meme circulating in August 2016 paired two racially charged statements previously attributed separately to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump:

“Laziness is a trait in blacks … I believe that”

“No black person will be president again any time soon” — Donald Trump

While neither attribution was new, the conjunction of the two statements gave the impression that Trump must have at some time opined that no black person will be President of the United States again any time soon because “laziness is a trait in blacks.”

There’s no public record of Trump’s ever having said such a thing.

However, there is a public record of Donald Trump having stated, more or less, that no black person will be president again any time soon because of the poor performance of the current officeholder:

Sadly, because president Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won’t see another black president for generations! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 25, 2014

When called upon to explain the statement in a 2 August 2015 interview with Jonathan Karl on ABC News’ This Week, Trump said:

TRUMP: Well, I think he’s been a very poor president. I think he has done a very poor job as president. We have $18 trillion right now in debt and going up rapidly. KARL: But what did you mean? What — TRUMP: Wait a minute. The world is — we don’t have victories anymore. China is killing us on trade. Mexico’s killing us at the border and also killing us on trade. Mexico’s doing unbelievably against us in trade. You look at what’s going on with Japan. You look at what’s going on with Vietnam. You look at Saudi Arabia, makes $1 billion a day and we defend them. We get nothing. KARL: I understand your critique. But why do you say that means we won’t see another black president for generations? TRUMP: Because I think that he has set a very poor standard. I think that he has set a very low bar and I think it’s a shame for the African American people. And by the way, he has done nothing for African Americans. You look at what’s gone on with their income levels. You look at what’s gone on with their youth. I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. I thought he’d do a fabulous job for the African American citizens of this country.

There’s a source attributing the statement “Laziness is a trait in blacks” to Donald Trump dating back to the early 1990s. It should be noted, however, that that source is a book written by a disgruntled former employee of Trump Plaza Hotel & Casino, John R. O’Donnell, and neither the statement nor the sentiment behind it has been corroborated elsewhere.

As one might expect, O’Donnell’s account, Trumped!, paints an unflattering portrait of its subject overall but offers this anecdote specifically as evidence of Trump’s low opinion of the African Americans in his employ:

“What do you think of him?” Donald asked. I said I was familiar with his abilities, and he had shortcomings. “To be honest, I don’t think he’s the best we can have,” I said. “I’d like to see him either come up to speed, where he can help me a lot more, or maybe there’s something else he can do.” Instantly, Donald was enthused. “Yeah, I never liked the guy. I don’t think he knows what the fuck he’s doing. My accountants up in New York are always complaining about him. He’s not responsive. And isn’t it funny, I’ve got black accountants at Trump Castle and at Trump Plaza. Black guys counting my money! I hate it. The only kind of people I want counting my money are short guys that wear yarmulkes every day. Those are the kind of people I want counting my money. Nobody else.” I couldn’t believe I was hearing this But Donald went on, “Besides that, I’ve got to tell you something else. I think that the guy is lazy. And it’s probably not his fault because laziness is a trait in blacks. It really is, I believe that. It’s not anything they can control…. Don’t you agree?” He looked at me square in the eye and waited for my reply. “Donald, you really shouldn’t say things like that to me or anybody else,” I said. “That is not the kind of image you want to project. We shouldn’t even be having this conversation, even if it’s the way you feel.” “Yeah, you’re right,” he said. “If anybody ever heard me say that … holy shit … I’d be in a lot of trouble. But I have to tell you, that’s the way I feel.”

Although Trump didn’t deny any of O’Donnell’s specific allegations in a subsequent (1997) Playboy magazine interview — “The stuff O’Donnell wrote about me is probably true,” Trump said at the time — he vehemently denied O’Donnell’s account of the conversation when asked about it in a 24 October 1999 interview with Tim Russert on Meet the Press:

MR. TRUMP: I never said it. I don’t even know… MR. RUSSERT: Donald Trump … MR. TRUMP: I hardly know this guy. He was running one of my casinos for a short period of time. He was fired, we fired him because he wasn’t doing a very good job. He wrote this nasty book. He made up stuff. This is like Jon Lovitz on “Saturday Night Live,” the liar. “I went to Harvard. Yeah, I went to Harvard.” This guy, I hardly know him. He made up this quote. I’ve heard the quote before, and it’s nonsense. MR. RUSSERT: You’ve never said anything like that? MR. TRUMP: I’ve never said anything like it, ever.

As the Washington Post noted, it is, at best, a secondhand quote from a private conversation, written down years after the fact, and should be viewed “with some skepticism.”

>Must've missed this in 2012 then.

Probably due to my filters. Reddit was full force pro-Obama. A lot of anti-Clinton propaganda has been propagated here this year.

>It is at least plausible to say that Hillary called half of his supporters deplorables, and half of a pretty big group is still a pretty big group.

#1#Still [accurate]#1#(https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/clinton-wasnt-wrong-about-the-deplorables-among-trumps-supporters/2016/09/12/93720264-7932-11e6-beac-57a4a412e93a_story.html) when you look at their racial attitudes. #2#Even his own supporters had issues with his bigotry - about [half]#2#(http://www.mediaite.com/online/guess-how-many-of-trumps-own-supporters-think-that-hes-a-racist/) of them.

>Overall, 44 percent of those in the Suffolk University/USA Today poll say Trump is not a racist, while 47 percent say he is.



http://www.mediaite.com/online/guess-how-many-of-trumps-own-supporters-think-that-hes-a-racist/
GUESS HOW MANY OF TRUMP’S OWN SUPPORTERS THINK THAT HE’S A RACIST
#2#A new poll showing Hillary Clinton ahead of Donald Trump by a decent margin also reveals that some of Trump’s own supporters consider him to be racist.#2#

Now, whether that’s coming from racists or people who have accepted that as a part of Trump’s character while holding their nose and rejecting Clinton, it’s still pretty significant.

Overall, 44 percent of those in the Suffolk University/USA Today poll say Trump is not a racist, while 47 percent say he is.

37 percent of white people think Trump is racist, compared to 61 percent of Hispanics and 83 percent of African-Americans.

But when you break it down by candidate, you have 77 percent of Clinton supporters calling Trump a racist while 7 percent of Trump supporters say the same.

Yes, 7 percent of people actively supporting Trump responded positively to the question “Do you think Donald Trump is a racist?”

You can read the full results here.

[h/t WaPo]

[image via screengrab]

— —

Follow Josh Feldman on Twitter: @feldmaniac

Have a tip we should know? tips@mediaite.com

First off not gonna say either side acted well-behaved, and I apologize for idiots who shouted you down, anyone who called you a "redneck". Idiots who key cars cause there's a Trump sticker, or vandalize political signs. But don't generalize from a few bad experiences. Just like minority but very real Trump supporters who are racists and misogynists don't represent his entire base, they don't represent all of us. Painting either side with that brush is only adding to the schism.

But Trump's entire strategy revolved around bullying, casual racism and xenophobia, and generally creating divisiveness. Alright, maybe the liberals took the bait too hard and that contributed to their own downfall, but see it from their perspective: you have a man who called most Mexicans rapists, most Muslims terrorists, builds a platform on blaming other races for problems, personally insults other candidates during debates, insisted Obama was a foreigner, was literally caught on tape saying he sexually harasses women. And his support seems to eat it up.

> Maybe Trump will not fix everything, but he can at least piss the liberals off. Make them feel some of the pain they make us feel.

This is such a false narrative against this stereotype of all liberals being this comfortable, ivory-tower, East-Coast or SF yuppie who've just been living in luxury while the rest of you suffered. It's exactly what a campaign like Trump's wanted you to think because it drummed up that outrage that fed his support base. 

The average liberal, at least where I am? It's the hard-working Mexican-American who wants a little relief for his family. It's blacks who grew up in crummy neighborhoods who their whole world just seemed to be pushing them down an inescapable cycle of poverty and crime. It's other young white people who took the baby boomer path pushed on them only to find student debt, lack of jobs, and the dreams of things like home-ownership unrealistic in the modern world.

It's people who have felt marginalized for most of their lives, if not for multiple-generations, and Trump built his platform on further distrusting them. And somehow you're surprised they might feel Trump's support base is a little racist?

Now let me backtrack. I understand there's a lot of white, middle America that's been hit hard too. Loss of manufacturing. The whole rust belt. Small towns where service industry isn't a fallback. They're also the marginalized. [This article](http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/), #1#despite being cracked and kinda buzzfeed-y at first glance with the gifs and stuff, actually was real eye-opening on their perspective.#1# But just as he has to admit his views on the cities were manipulated and false, and I have to understand Trump's support is not all Confederate Flag wearing, gun-toting, rednecks -- so do you have to let go of this idea of the pervasive "smug liberal".

And all Trump was doing was puppeting one marginalized group against another. You saying "many of us voted for him just to piss off liberals" is playing right into his hand, same as the other side saying all Trump supporters are racists and sexist. Never that I can remember had a political run on such a division platform. Bush, for all his faults, never insulted a race of people, in fact, despite my dislike of him, he did a great job promoting American unity, especially post 9/11 -- including Muslims. I don't mean just by not saying anything bad about them, he went out of his way to praise them and accept them. Likewise liberal shows may have poked fun of Bush as airheaded, but it was hardly out of line from normal political satire.

So sure, the liberal side maybe took the bait too hard, but so did you.



http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/
HOW HALF OF AMERICA LOST ITS F**KING MIND
"But Trump is objectively a piece of shit!" you say. "He insults people, he objectifies women, and cheats whenever possible! And he's not an everyman; he's a smarmy, arrogant billionaire!"

Wait, are you talking about Donald Trump, or this guy:

Marvel Studios

Make The Avengers Assemble Again.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

#1#You've never rooted for somebody like that? Someone powerful who gives your enemies the insults they deserve? Somebody with big fun appetites who screws up just enough to make them relatable? Like Dr. House or Walter White? Or any of the several million renegade cop characters who can break all the rules because they get shit done? Who only get shit done because they don't care about the rules?#1#

"But those are fictional characters!" Okay, what about all those millionaire left-leaning talk show hosts? You think they keep their insults classy? Tune into any bit about Chris Christie and start counting down the seconds until the fat joke. Google David Letterman's sex scandals. But it's okay, because they're on our side, and everybody wants an asshole on their team -- a spiked bat to smash their enemies with. That's all Trump is. The howls of elite outrage are like the sounds of bombs landing on the enemy's fortress. The louder the better.

Kevin Winter/Getty Images

And when cameras record said elites BFFing with their supposed enemy, even better.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

Already some of you have gotten angry, feeling this gut-level revulsion at any attempt to excuse or even understand these people. After all, they're hardly people, right? Aren't they just a mass of ignorant, rageful, crude, cursing, spitting subhumans?

Gee, I hope not. I have to hug a bunch of them at Thanksgiving. And when I do, it will be with the knowledge that if I hadn't moved away, I'd be on the other side of the fence, leaving nasty comments on this article the alternate universe version of me wrote.

Cracked

And not just because I reminded Rural Me of Billy Joel's worst song ever.

It feels good to dismiss people, to mock them, to write them off as deplorables. But you might as well take time to try to understand them, because I'm telling you, they'll still be around long after Trump is gone.

David Wong is the Executive Editor of Cracked, his most recent novel is now in development as a TV series and just came out in paperback. Robert Evans googled like a motherfucker for this article. You should buy his book.

The discussion doesn't end here. David talks about this article on this week's episode of the Cracked podcast.

For more from David Wong, check out The Baffling Stories Behind Our Epidemic Of Mass Killers and Why Anxiety Is The Plague Of The Modern World .

Subscribe to our YouTube channel, and check out What Trump Does With His Mouth When He's Not Speaking, and other videos you won't see on the site!

Follow us on Facebook, and give us a big hug, please.

Consider the novel Uncle Tom's Cabin. The book is dominated by a single theme: the evil and immorality of slavery and upon publication, it ignited a firestorm of protest from defenders of slavery (who created a number of books in response to the novel) while the book elicited praise from abolitionists. #1#As a best-seller, the novel heavily influenced later protest literature.#1# [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Tom%27s_Cabin#Reactions_to_the_novel)

Even though this book was just a novel and many people found it outrageous, it was still able to trigger a national debate on the morality of slavery.

I do agree that a large amount of reading is done just for entertainment and so in a lot of contexts is no better than TV.  But another more modern example, even though it was published 50 years ago, might be all the people that read Ayn Rand novels like Atlas Shrugged and become libertarians as a result.   People are still reading them today and adopting her political philosophies just based on the characters and situations that she discusses in her novels.

I tend to think that the author of novels tend to put more thought into abstract ideas they want to portray in their novels than TV, but of course there are plenty examples to the contrary like cheap romance novels.  Take a TV example of Star Trek the Next Generation where the main character would fly around and meet aliens who he'd try to understand.  People were always trying to jump to conclusions about situations, but he would always patiently try to sort out the details and find there were deeper truths to what motivated people.  It sends strong messages about how we should attempt to deal with people different than ourselves.  They also had anti-capitalist themes by demonstrating a society with no money but then having a race of aliens that were obsessed with money and showing the evil of that.  TV is also capable of changing political philosophies and making us question how we treat others.




https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncle_Tom%27s_Cabin#Reactions_to_the_novel
UNCLE TOM'S CABIN
This article is about the mid-19th century novel. For other uses, see Uncle Tom's Cabin (disambiguation)

Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly,[1][2] is an anti-slavery novel by American author Harriet Beecher Stowe. Published in 1852, the novel "helped lay the groundwork for the Civil War", according to Will Kaufman.[3]

Stowe, a Connecticut-born teacher at the Hartford Female Seminary and an active abolitionist, featured the character of Uncle Tom, a long-suffering black slave around whom the stories of other characters revolve. The sentimental novel depicts the reality of slavery while also asserting that Christian love can overcome something as destructive as enslavement of fellow human beings.[4][5][6]

#1#Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel of the 19th century and the second best-selling book of that century, following the Bible.[7][8] It is credited with helping fuel the abolitionist cause in the 1850s.#1#[9] In the first year after it was published, 300,000 copies of the book were sold in the United States; one million copies in Great Britain.[10] In 1855, three years after it was published, it was called "the most popular novel of our day."[11] The impact attributed to the book is great, reinforced by a story that when Abraham Lincoln met Stowe at the start of the Civil War, Lincoln declared, "So this is the little lady who started this great war."[12] The quote is apocryphal; it did not appear in print until 1896, and it has been argued that "The long-term durability of Lincoln's greeting as an anecdote in literary studies and Stowe scholarship can perhaps be explained in part by the desire among many contemporary intellectuals ... to affirm the role of literature as an agent of social change."[13]

The book and the plays it inspired helped popularize a number of stereotypes about black people.[14] These include the affectionate, dark-skinned "mammy"; the "pickaninny" stereotype of black children; and the "Uncle Tom", or dutiful, long-suffering servant faithful to his white master or mistress. In recent years, the negative associations with Uncle Tom's Cabin have, to an extent, overshadowed the historical impact of the book as a "vital antislavery tool."[15]

Sources

Stowe, a Connecticut-born teacher at the Hartford Female Seminary and an active abolitionist, wrote the novel as a response to the passage, in 1850, of the second Fugitive Slave Act. Much of the book was composed in Brunswick, Maine, where her husband, Calvin Ellis Stowe, taught at his alma mater, Bowdoin College.

Stowe was partly inspired to create Uncle Tom's Cabin by the slave narrative The Life of Josiah Henson, Formerly a Slave, Now an Inhabitant of Canada, as Narrated by Himself (1849). Henson, a formerly enslaved black man, had lived and worked on a 3,700 acres (15 km2) tobacco plantation in North Bethesda, Maryland, owned by Isaac Riley.[16] Henson escaped slavery in 1830 by fleeing to the Province of Upper Canada (now Ontario), where he helped other fugitive slaves settle and become self-sufficient, and where he wrote his memoirs. Stowe acknowledged in 1853 that Henson's writings inspired Uncle Tom's Cabin.[17] When Stowe's work became a best-seller, Henson republished his memoirs as The Memoirs of Uncle Tom and traveled on lecture tours extensively in the United States and Europe.[16] Stowe's novel lent its name to Henson's home—Uncle Tom's Cabin Historic Site, near Dresden, Canada—which since the 1940s has been a museum. The cabin where Henson lived while he was enslaved no longer exists, but a cabin on the Riley farm erroneously thought to be the Henson Cabin was purchased by the Montgomery County, Maryland, government in 2006.[18] It is now a part of the National Park Service National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom program,[19] and plans are underway to build a museum and interpretive center on the site.

American Slavery As It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses, a volume co-authored by Theodore Dwight Weld and the Grimké sisters, is also a source of some of the novel's content.[20] Stowe said she based the novel on a number of interviews with people who escaped slavery during the time when she was living in Cincinnati, Ohio, across the Ohio River from Kentucky, a slave state. In Cincinnati the Underground Railroad had local abolitionist sympathizers and was active in efforts to help runaway slaves on their escape route from the South.

Stowe mentioned a number of the inspirations and sources for her novel in A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin (1853). This non-fiction book was intended to verify Stowe's claims about slavery.[21] However, later research indicated that Stowe did not read many of the book's cited works until after she had published her novel.[21]

Publication

The National Era, June 5, 1851 , June 5, 1851

Uncle Tom's Cabin first appeared as a 40-week serial in The National Era, an abolitionist periodical, starting with the June 5, 1851, issue. It was originally intended as a shorter narrative that would run for only a few weeks. Stowe expanded the story significantly, however, and it was instantly popular, such that several protests were sent to the Era office when she missed an issue.[22] Because of the story's popularity, the publisher John P. Jewett contacted Stowe about turning the serial into a book. While Stowe questioned if anyone would read Uncle Tom's Cabin in book form, she eventually consented to the request.

Convinced the book would be popular, Jewett made the unusual decision (for the time) to have six full-page illustrations by Hammatt Billings engraved for the first printing.[23] Published in book form on March 20, 1852, the novel sold 3,000 copies on that day alone,[22] and soon sold out its complete print run. A number of other editions were soon printed (including a deluxe edition in 1853, featuring 117 illustrations by Billings).[24]

In the first year of publication, 300,000 copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin were sold. At that point, however, "demand came to an unexpected halt.... No more copies were produced for many years, and if, as is claimed, Abraham Lincoln greeted Stowe in 1862 as 'the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war,' the work had effectively been out of print for many years." Jewett went out of business, and it was not until Ticknor and Fields put the work back in print in November 1862 that demand began again to increase.[25]

The book was translated into all major languages, and in the United States it became the second best-selling book after the Bible.[7] A number of the early editions carried an introduction by Rev James Sherman, a Congregational minister in London noted for his abolitionist views. Uncle Tom's Cabin sold equally well in Britain, with the first London edition appearing in May 1852 and selling 200,000 copies.[26] In a few years over 1.5 million copies of the book were in circulation in Britain, although most of these were infringing copies (a similar situation occurred in the United States).[27]

Plot

Eliza escapes with her son, Tom sold "down the river"

Uncle Tom's Cabin depicts Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and she is running away to save her child (first edition: Boston: Full-page illustration by Hammatt Billings fordepicts Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and she is running away to save her child (first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company , 1852).

The book opens with a Kentucky farmer named Arthur Shelby facing the loss of his farm because of debts. Even though he and his wife Emily Shelby believe that they have a benevolent relationship with their slaves, Shelby decides to raise the needed funds by selling two of them—Uncle Tom, a middle-aged man with a wife and children, and Harry, the son of Emily Shelby's maid Eliza—to a slave trader. Emily Shelby is averse to this idea because she had promised her maid that her child would never be sold; Emily's son, George Shelby, hates to see Tom go because he sees the man as his friend and mentor.

When Eliza overhears Mr. and Mrs. Shelby discussing plans to sell Tom and Harry, Eliza determines to run away with her son. The novel states that Eliza made this decision because she fears losing her only surviving child (she had already miscarried two children). Eliza departs that night, leaving a note of apology to her mistress.

Tom is sold and placed on a riverboat which sets sail down the Mississippi River. While on board, Tom meets and befriends a young white girl named Eva. Eva's father Augustine St. Clare buys Tom from the slave trader and takes him with the family to their home in New Orleans. Tom and Eva begin to relate to one another because of the deep Christian faith they both share.

Eliza's family hunted, Tom's life with St. Clare

Uncle Tom's Cabin. Illustration of Tom and Eva by Hammatt Billings for the 1853 deluxe edition of

During Eliza's escape, she meets up with her husband George Harris, who had run away previously. They decide to attempt to reach Canada. However, they are tracked by a slave hunter named Tom Loker. Eventually Loker and his men trap Eliza and her family, causing George to shoot him in the side. Worried that Loker may die, Eliza convinces George to bring the slave hunter to a nearby Quaker settlement for medical treatment.

Back in New Orleans, St. Clare debates slavery with his Northern cousin Ophelia who, while opposing slavery, is prejudiced against black people. St. Clare, however, believes he is not biased, even though he is a slave owner. In an attempt to show Ophelia that her views on blacks are wrong, St. Clare purchases Topsy, a young black slave, and asks Ophelia to educate her.

After Tom has lived with the St. Clares for two years, Eva grows very ill. Before she dies she experiences a vision of heaven, which she shares with the people around her. As a result of her death and vision, the other characters resolve to change their lives, with Ophelia promising to throw off her personal prejudices against blacks, Topsy saying she will better herself, and St. Clare pledging to free Tom.

Tom sold to Simon Legree

Before St. Clare can follow through on his pledge, however, he dies after being stabbed outside of a tavern. His wife reneges on her late husband's vow and sells Tom at auction to a vicious plantation owner named Simon Legree. Legree (a transplanted northerner) takes Tom and Emmeline (whom Legree purchased at the same time) to rural Louisiana, where they meet Legree's other slaves.

Uncle Tom's Cabin (first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company, 1852). Cassy, another of Legree's slaves, is shown ministering to Uncle Tom after his whipping. Full page illustration by Hammatt Billings for(first edition: Boston: John P. Jewett and Company, 1852). Cassy, another of Legree's slaves, is shown ministering to Uncle Tom after his whipping.

Legree begins to hate Tom when Tom refuses Legree's order to whip his fellow slave. Legree beats Tom viciously and resolves to crush his new slave's faith in God. Despite Legree's cruelty, however, Tom refuses to stop reading his Bible and comforting the other slaves as best he can. While at the plantation, Tom meets Cassy, another of Legree's slaves. Cassy was previously separated from her son and daughter when they were sold; unable to endure the pain of seeing another child sold, she killed her third child.

At this point Tom Loker returns to the story. Loker has changed as the result of being healed by the Quakers. George, Eliza, and Harry have also obtained their freedom after crossing into Canada. In Louisiana, Uncle Tom almost succumbs to hopelessness as his faith in God is tested by the hardships of the plantation. However, he has two visions, one of Jesus and one of Eva, which renew his resolve to remain a faithful Christian, even unto death. He encourages Cassy to escape, which she does, taking Emmeline with her. When Tom refuses to tell Legree where Cassy and Emmeline have gone, Legree orders his overseers to kill Tom. As Tom is dying, he forgives the overseers who savagely beat him. Humbled by the character of the man they have killed, both men become Christians. Very shortly before Tom's death, George Shelby (Arthur Shelby's son) arrives to buy Tom's freedom but finds he is too late.

Final section

On their boat ride to freedom, Cassy and Emmeline meet George Harris's sister and accompany her to Canada. Cassy discovers that Eliza is her long-lost daughter who was sold as a child. Now that their family is together again, they travel to France and eventually Liberia, the African nation created for former American slaves. George Shelby returns to the Kentucky farm and frees all his slaves. George tells them to remember Tom's sacrifice and his belief in the true meaning of Christianity.

Major characters

Uncle Tom

Simon Legree assaults Uncle Tom.

Uncle Tom, the title character, was initially seen as a noble, long-suffering Christian slave. In more recent years, however, his name has become an epithet directed towards African-Americans who are accused of selling out to whites. Stowe intended Tom to be a "noble hero"[28] and praiseworthy person. Throughout the book, far from allowing himself to be exploited, Tom stands up for his beliefs and is grudgingly admired even by his enemies.

Eliza

Eliza is a slave and personal maid to Mrs. Shelby who escapes to the North with her five-year-old son Harry after he is sold to Mr. Haley. Her husband, George, eventually finds Eliza and Harry in Ohio and emigrates with them to Canada, then France and finally Liberia.

The character Eliza was inspired by an account given at Lane Theological Seminary in Cincinnati by John Rankin to Stowe's husband Calvin, a professor at the school. According to Rankin, in February 1838 a young slave woman, Eliza Harris, had escaped across the frozen Ohio River to the town of Ripley with her child in her arms and stayed at his house on her way further north.[29]

Eva

Evangeline St. Clare is the daughter of Augustine St. Clare. Eva enters the narrative when Uncle Tom is traveling via steamship to New Orleans to be sold, and he rescues the five- or six-year-old girl from drowning. Eva begs her father to buy Tom, and he becomes the head coachman at the St. Clare house. He spends most of his time with the angelic Eva. Eva often talks about love and forgiveness, even convincing the dour slave girl Topsy that she deserves love. She even touches the heart of her Aunt Ophelia.

Eventually Eva falls terminally ill. Before dying, she gives a lock of her hair to each of the slaves, telling them that they must become Christians so that they may see each other in Heaven. On her deathbed, she convinces her father to free Tom, but because of circumstances the promise never materializes.

A similar character, also named Little Eva, later appeared in the children's novel Little Eva: The Flower of the South by Philip J. Cozans (although this ironically was an anti-Tom novel).

Simon Legree

Uncle Tom's Cabin (Classic Comics No. 15, November 1943 issue). Simon Legree on the cover of the comic book adaptation ofNo. 15, November 1943 issue).

Simon Legree is a cruel slave owner—a Northerner by birth—whose name has become synonymous with greed. He is arguably the novel's main antagonist. His goal is to demoralize Tom and break him of his religious faith; he eventually orders Tom whipped to death out of frustration for his slave's unbreakable belief in God. The novel reveals that, as a young man, he had abandoned his sickly mother for a life at sea and ignored her letter to see her one last time at her deathbed. He sexually exploits Cassy, who despises him, and later sets his designs on Emmeline.

It is unclear if Legree is based on any actual individuals. Reports surfaced after the 1870s that Stowe had in mind a wealthy cotton and sugar plantation owner named Meredith Calhoun, who settled on the Red River north of Alexandria, Louisiana. Generally, however, the personal characteristics of Calhoun ("highly educated and refined") do not match the uncouthness and brutality of Legree. Calhoun even edited his own newspaper, published in Colfax (originally "Calhoun's Landing"), which was renamed The National Democrat after Calhoun's death. However, Calhoun's overseers may have been in line with the hated Legree's methods and motivations.[30]

Other characters

The more notable of the secondary and minor characters in Uncle Tom's Cabin are:

Arthur Shelby – Tom's master in Kentucky. Shelby is characterized as a "kind" slaveowner and a stereotypical Southern gentleman.

– Tom's master in Kentucky. Shelby is characterized as a "kind" slaveowner and a stereotypical Southern gentleman. Emily Shelby – Arthur Shelby's wife. She is a deeply religious woman who strives to be a kind and moral influence upon her slaves and is appalled when her husband sells his slaves with a slave trader. As a woman, she has no legal way to stop this, as all property belongs to her husband.

– Arthur Shelby's wife. She is a deeply religious woman who strives to be a kind and moral influence upon her slaves and is appalled when her husband sells his slaves with a slave trader. As a woman, she has no legal way to stop this, as all property belongs to her husband. George Shelby – Arthur and Emily's son, who sees Tom as a friend and as the perfect Christian.

– Arthur and Emily's son, who sees Tom as a friend and as the perfect Christian. Chloe – Tom's wife and mother of his children.

– Tom's wife and mother of his children. Augustine St. Clare – Tom's third owner and father of Eva. St. Clare is complex, often sarcastic, with a ready wit. After a rocky courtship he marries a woman he grows to hold in contempt, though he is too polite to let it show. St. Clare recognizes the evil in chattel slavery but is not willing to relinquish the wealth it brings him. After his daughter's death he becomes more sincere in his religious thoughts and starts to read the Bible to Tom. He plans on finally taking action against slavery by freeing his slaves, but his good intentions ultimately come to nothing.

– Tom's third owner and father of Eva. St. Clare is complex, often sarcastic, with a ready wit. After a rocky courtship he marries a woman he grows to hold in contempt, though he is too polite to let it show. St. Clare recognizes the evil in chattel slavery but is not willing to relinquish the wealth it brings him. After his daughter's death he becomes more sincere in his religious thoughts and starts to read the Bible to Tom. He plans on finally taking action against slavery by freeing his slaves, but his good intentions ultimately come to nothing. Marie St. Clare – Wife of Augustine, she is a self-absorbed woman without a hint of compassion for those around her, including her own family. Given to an unending list of (apparently imaginary) physical maladies, she continually complains about the lack of sympathy she is receiving. She has separated her personal maid, Mammy, from her own two children because they would interfere with her duties. As Marie drives Mammy to exhaustion, she criticizes her for selfishly seeking to attend her own family. Upon the unexpected death of Augustine, Marie countermands the legal process that would have given Tom his freedom.

– Wife of Augustine, she is a self-absorbed woman without a hint of compassion for those around her, including her own family. Given to an unending list of (apparently imaginary) physical maladies, she continually complains about the lack of sympathy she is receiving. She has separated her personal maid, Mammy, from her own two children because they would interfere with her duties. As Marie drives Mammy to exhaustion, she criticizes her for selfishly seeking to attend her own family. Upon the unexpected death of Augustine, Marie countermands the legal process that would have given Tom his freedom. George Harris – Eliza's husband. An intelligent and clever half-white slave who is fiercely loyal to his family.

Topsy – A young slave girl. When asked if she knows who made her, she professes ignorance of both God and a mother, saying "I s'pect I growed. Don't think nobody never made me." She is transformed by Eva's love. During the early-to-mid 20th century, several doll manufacturers created Topsy and Topsy-type dolls. The phrase "growed like Topsy" (later "grew like Topsy") passed into the English language, originally with the specific meaning of unplanned growth, later sometimes just meaning enormous growth. [31]

– A young slave girl. When asked if she knows who made her, she professes ignorance of both God and a mother, saying "I s'pect I growed. Don't think nobody never made me." She is transformed by Eva's love. During the early-to-mid 20th century, several doll manufacturers created Topsy and Topsy-type dolls. The phrase "growed like Topsy" (later "grew like Topsy") passed into the English language, originally with the specific meaning of unplanned growth, later sometimes just meaning enormous growth. Miss Ophelia – Augustine St. Clare's pious, hard-working, abolitionist cousin from Vermont. She displays the ambiguities towards African-Americans felt by many Northerners at the time. She argues against the institution of slavery yet, at least initially, feels repulsed by the slaves as individuals.

– Augustine St. Clare's pious, hard-working, abolitionist cousin from Vermont. She displays the ambiguities towards African-Americans felt by many Northerners at the time. She argues against the institution of slavery yet, at least initially, feels repulsed by the slaves as individuals. Prue – A depressed slave who was forced to let her child starve to death. She takes up drinking in her misery, and is ultimately beaten and killed for it.

– A depressed slave who was forced to let her child starve to death. She takes up drinking in her misery, and is ultimately beaten and killed for it. Quimbo and Sambo – slaves of Simon Legree who act as overseers of the plantation. On orders from Legree, they savagely whip Tom but afterward tearfully repent of their deeds to Tom, who forgives them as he lies dying.

Major themes

Uncle Tom's Cabin is dominated by a single theme: the evil and immorality of slavery.[32] While Stowe weaves other subthemes throughout her text, such as the moral authority of motherhood and the redeeming possibilities offered by Christianity,[5] she emphasizes the connections between these and the horrors of slavery. Stowe sometimes changed the story's voice so she could give a "homily" on the destructive nature of slavery[33] (such as when a white woman on the steamboat carrying Tom further south states, "The most dreadful part of slavery, to my mind, is its outrages of feelings and affections—the separating of families, for example.").[34] One way Stowe showed the evil of slavery[26] was how this "peculiar institution" forcibly separated families from each other.[35] One of the subthemes presented in the novel is temperance. Stowe made it somewhat subtle and in some cases she weaved it into events that would also support the dominant theme. One example of this is when Augustine St. Clare is killed, he attempted to stop a brawl between two inebriated men in a cafe and was stabbed. One other example is the death of the slave woman Prue who was whipped to death for being drunk on a consistent basis; however, her reasons for doing so is due to the loss of her baby. In the opening of the novel, the fates of Eliza and her son are being discussed between slave owners over wine. Considering that Stowe intended this to be a subtheme, this scene could foreshadow future events that put alcohol in a bad light.

Uncle Tom's Cabin, first edition. The image shows George Harris, Eliza, Harry, and Mrs. Smyth after they escape to freedom. "The fugitives are safe in a free land." Illustration by Hammatt Billings for, first edition. The image shows George Harris, Eliza, Harry, and Mrs. Smyth after they escape to freedom.

Because Stowe saw motherhood as the "ethical and structural model for all of American life"[36] and also believed that only women had the moral authority to save[37] the United States from the demon of slavery, another major theme of Uncle Tom's Cabin is the moral power and sanctity of women. Through characters like Eliza, who escapes from slavery to save her young son (and eventually reunites her entire family), or Eva, who is seen as the "ideal Christian",[38] Stowe shows how she believed women could save those around them from even the worst injustices. While later critics have noted that Stowe's female characters are often domestic clichés instead of realistic women,[39] Stowe's novel "reaffirmed the importance of women's influence" and helped pave the way for the women's rights movement in the following decades.[40]

Stowe's puritanical religious beliefs show up in the novel's final, overarching theme—the exploration of the nature of Christianity[5] and how she feels Christian theology is fundamentally incompatible with slavery.[41] This theme is most evident when Tom urges St. Clare to "look away to Jesus" after the death of St. Clare's beloved daughter Eva. After Tom dies, George Shelby eulogizes Tom by saying, "What a thing it is to be a Christian."[42] Because Christian themes play such a large role in Uncle Tom's Cabin—and because of Stowe's frequent use of direct authorial interjections on religion and faith—the novel often takes the "form of a sermon."[43]

Style

Eliza crossing the icy river, in an 1881 theater poster

Uncle Tom's Cabin is written in the sentimental[44] and melodramatic style common to 19th century sentimental novels[8] and domestic fiction (also called women's fiction). These genres were the most popular novels of Stowe's time and tended to feature female main characters and a writing style which evoked a reader's sympathy and emotion.[45] Even though Stowe's novel differs from other sentimental novels by focusing on a large theme like slavery and by having a man as the main character, she still set out to elicit certain strong feelings from her readers.[46] The power in this type of writing can be seen in the reaction of contemporary readers. Georgiana May, a friend of Stowe's, wrote a letter to the author, saying: "I was up last night long after one o'clock, reading and finishing Uncle Tom's Cabin. I could not leave it any more than I could have left a dying child."[47] Another reader is described as obsessing on the book at all hours and having considered renaming her daughter Eva.[48] Evidently the death of Little Eva affected a lot of people at that time, because in 1852, 300 baby girls in Boston alone were given that name.[48]

Despite this positive reaction from readers, for decades literary critics dismissed the style found in Uncle Tom's Cabin and other sentimental novels because these books were written by women and so prominently featured "women's sloppy emotions."[49] One literary critic said that had the novel not been about slavery, "it would be just another sentimental novel,"[50] while another described the book as "primarily a derivative piece of hack work."[51] In The Literary History of the United States, George F. Whicher called Uncle Tom's Cabin "Sunday-school fiction", full of "broadly conceived melodrama, humor, and pathos."[52]

However, in 1985 Jane Tompkins expressed a different view of Uncle Tom's Cabin with her book In Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction.[49] Tompkins praised the style so many other critics had dismissed, writing that sentimental novels showed how women's emotions had the power to change the world for the better. She also said that the popular domestic novels of the 19th century, including Uncle Tom's Cabin, were remarkable for their "intellectual complexity, ambition, and resourcefulness"; and that Uncle Tom's Cabin offers a "critique of American society far more devastating than any delivered by better-known critics such as Hawthorne and Melville."[52]

This view remains the subject of dispute. Writing in 2001, legal scholar Richard Posner described Uncle Tom's Cabin as part of the mediocre list of canonical works that emerges when political criteria are imposed on literature.[53]

Reactions to the novel

Uncle Tom's Cabin has exerted an influence equaled by few other novels in history.[54] Upon publication, Uncle Tom's Cabin ignited a firestorm of protest from defenders of slavery (who created a number of books in response to the novel) while the book elicited praise from abolitionists. As a best-seller, the novel heavily influenced later protest literature.

Contemporary and world reaction

Uncle Tom's Cabin outraged people in the American South.[26] The novel was also roundly criticized by slavery supporters.

Acclaimed Southern novelist William Gilmore Simms declared the work utterly false,[55] while others called the novel criminal and slanderous.[56] Reactions ranged from a bookseller in Mobile, Alabama, being forced to leave town for selling the novel[26] to threatening letters sent to Stowe (including a package containing a slave's severed ear).[26] Many Southern writers, like Simms, soon wrote their own books in opposition to Stowe's novel.[57]

Some critics highlighted Stowe's paucity of life-experience relating to Southern life, saying that it led her to create inaccurate descriptions of the region. For instance, she had never been to a Southern plantation. However, Stowe always said she based the characters of her book on stories she was told by runaway slaves in Cincinnati. It is reported that "She observed firsthand several incidents which galvanized her to write [the] famous anti-slavery novel. Scenes she observed on the Ohio River, including seeing a husband and wife being sold apart, as well as newspaper and magazine accounts and interviews, contributed material to the emerging plot."[58]

A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, first edition cover, 1853 , first edition cover, 1853

In response to these criticisms, in 1853 Stowe published A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, an attempt to document the veracity of the novel's depiction of slavery. In the book, Stowe discusses each of the major characters in Uncle Tom's Cabin and cites "real life equivalents" to them while also mounting a more "aggressive attack on slavery in the South than the novel itself had."[21] Like the novel, A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin was a best-seller. However, while Stowe claimed A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin documented her previously consulted sources, she actually read many of the cited works only after the publication of her novel.[21] A major part of the Key was Stowe's critique of how the legal system supported slavery and licensed owners' mistreatment of slaves. Thus, Stowe put more than slavery on trial; she put the law on trial. This continued an important theme of Uncle Tom's Cabin—that the shadow of law brooded over the institution of slavery and allowed owners to mistreat slaves and then avoid punishment for their mistreatment. In some cases, as Stowe pointed out, it even prevented kind owners from freeing their slaves.[56]

Despite these criticisms, the novel still captured the imagination of many Americans. According to Stowe's son, when Abraham Lincoln met her in 1862 Lincoln commented, "So this is the little lady who started this great war."[12] Historians are undecided if Lincoln actually said this line, and in a letter that Stowe wrote to her husband a few hours after meeting with Lincoln no mention of this comment was made.[59] Since then, many writers have credited this novel with focusing Northern anger at the injustices of slavery and the Fugitive Slave Law[59] and helping to fuel the abolitionist movement.[9] Union general and politician James Baird Weaver said that the book convinced him to become active in the abolitionist movement.[60]

Uncle Tom's Cabin also created great interest in the United Kingdom. The first London edition appeared in May 1852 and sold 200,000 copies.[26] Some of this interest was because of British antipathy to America. As one prominent writer explained, "The evil passions which Uncle Tom gratified in England were not hatred or vengeance [of slavery], but national jealousy and national vanity. We have long been smarting under the conceit of America—we are tired of hearing her boast that she is the freest and the most enlightened country that the world has ever seen. Our clergy hate her voluntary system—our Tories hate her democrats—our Whigs hate her parvenus—our Radicals hate her litigiousness, her insolence, and her ambition. All parties hailed Mrs. Stowe as a revolter from the enemy."[61] Charles Francis Adams, the American minister to Britain during the war, argued later that "Uncle Tom's Cabin; or Life among the Lowly, published in 1852, exercised, largely from fortuitous circumstances, a more immediate, considerable and dramatic world-influence than any other book ever printed."[62]

A French edition, translated by M. L. Carion (or by [Anne-]Louise Swanton-Belloc? (1796–1881)), appeared by 1853 published in Cambrai and in Paris.[63] By 1857, the novel had been translated into 20 languages,[64] including two independent translations into Slovene just one year after its original publication,[65] which started the since-then uninterrupted dialogue between American authors and Slovene translators and readers.[66] Later, it was translated into almost every major language, including Chinese (with translator Lin Shu creating the first Chinese translation of an American novel in 1901) and Amharic (with the 1930 translation created in support of Ethiopian efforts to end the suffering of blacks in that nation).[67] The book was so widely read that Sigmund Freud reported a number of patients with sado-masochistic tendencies who he believed had been influenced by reading about the whipping of slaves in Uncle Tom's Cabin.[68]

Literary significance and criticism

As the first widely read political novel in the United States,[69] Uncle Tom's Cabin greatly influenced development of not only American literature but also protest literature in general. Later books which owe a large debt to Uncle Tom's Cabin include The Jungle by Upton Sinclair and Silent Spring by Rachel Carson.[70]

Despite this undisputed significance, Uncle Tom's Cabin has been called "a blend of children's fable and propaganda."[71] The novel has also been dismissed by a number of literary critics as "merely a sentimental novel,"[50] while critic George Whicher stated in his Literary History of the United States that "Nothing attributable to Mrs. Stowe or her handiwork can account for the novel's enormous vogue; its author's resources as a purveyor of Sunday-school fiction were not remarkable. She had at most a ready command of broadly conceived melodrama, humor, and pathos, and of these popular sentiments she compounded her book."[52]

Other critics, though, have praised the novel. Edmund Wilson stated that "To expose oneself in maturity to Uncle Tom's Cabin may ... prove a startling experience."[71] Jane Tompkins states that the novel is one of the classics of American literature and wonders if many literary critics dismiss the book because it was simply too popular during its day.[52]

Over the years scholars have postulated a number of theories about what Stowe was trying to say with the novel (aside from the obvious themes, such as condemning slavery). For example, as an ardent Christian and active abolitionist, Stowe placed many of her religious beliefs into the novel.[72] Some scholars have stated that Stowe saw her novel as offering a solution to the moral and political dilemma that troubled many slavery opponents: whether engaging in prohibited behavior was justified in opposing evil. Was the use of violence to oppose the violence of slavery and the breaking of proslavery laws morally defensible? Which of Stowe's characters should be emulated, the passive Uncle Tom or the defiant George Harris?[73] Stowe's solution was similar to Ralph Waldo Emerson's: God's will would be followed if each person sincerely examined his principles and acted on them.[73]

Scholars have also seen the novel as expressing the values and ideas of the Free Will Movement.[74] In this view, the character of George Harris embodies the principles of free labor, while the complex character of Ophelia represents those Northerners who condoned compromise with slavery. In contrast to Ophelia is Dinah, who operates on passion. During the course of the novel Ophelia is transformed, just as the Republican Party (three years later) proclaimed that the North must transform itself and stand up for its antislavery principles.[74]

Feminist theory can also be seen at play in Stowe's book, with the novel as a critique of the patriarchal nature of slavery.[75] For Stowe, blood relations rather than paternalistic relations between masters and slaves formed the basis of families. Moreover, Stowe viewed national solidarity as an extension of a person's family, thus feelings of nationality stemmed from possessing a shared race. Consequently, she advocated African colonization for freed slaves and not amalgamation into American society.

The book has also been seen as an attempt to redefine masculinity as a necessary step toward the abolition of slavery.[76] In this view, abolitionists had begun to resist the vision of aggressive and dominant men that the conquest and colonization of the early 19th century had fostered. In order to change the notion of manhood so that men could oppose slavery without jeopardizing their self-image or their standing in society, some abolitionists drew on principles of women's suffrage and Christianity as well as passivism, and praised men for cooperation, compassion, and civic spirit. Others within the abolitionist movement argued for conventional, aggressive masculine action. All the men in Stowe's novel are representations of either one kind of man or the other.[76]

Creation and popularization of stereotypes

Uncle Tom's Cabin. The character of Sam helped create the stereotype of the lazy, carefree "happy darky". Illustration of Sam from the 1888 "New Edition" of. The character of Sam helped create the stereotype of the lazy, carefree "happy darky".

Modern scholars and readers have criticized the book for what are seen as condescending racist descriptions of the book's black characters, especially with regard to the characters' appearances, speech, and behavior, as well as the passive nature of Uncle Tom in accepting his fate.[77] The novel's creation and use of common stereotypes about African Americans[14] is significant because Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel in the world during the 19th century.[7] As a result, the book (along with illustrations from the book[78] and associated stage productions) played a major role in permanently ingraining these stereotypes into the American psyche.[77]

Among the stereotypes of blacks in Uncle Tom's Cabin are[15] the "happy darky" (in the lazy, carefree character of Sam); the light-skinned tragic mulatto as a sex object (in the characters of Eliza, Cassy, and Emmeline); the affectionate, dark-skinned female mammy (through several characters, including Mammy, a cook at the St. Clare plantation); the pickaninny stereotype of black children (in the character of Topsy); the Uncle Tom, an African American who is too eager to please white people. Stowe intended Tom to be a "noble hero". The stereotype of him as a "subservient fool who bows down to the white man" evidently resulted from staged "Tom Shows", over which Stowe had no control.[28]

These negative associations have to a large degree overshadowed the historical impact of Uncle Tom's Cabin as a "vital antislavery tool".[15] The beginning of this change in the novel's perception had its roots in an essay by James Baldwin titled "Everybody's Protest Novel". In the essay, Baldwin called Uncle Tom's Cabin a "very bad novel" which was also racially obtuse and aesthetically crude.[79] In the 1960s and 1970s, the Black Power and Black Arts Movements attacked the novel, saying that the character of Uncle Tom engaged in "race betrayal", and that Tom made slaves out to be worse than slave owners.[79] Criticisms of the other stereotypes in the book also increased during this time. In recent years, however, scholars such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun to re-examine Uncle Tom's Cabin, stating that the book is a "central document in American race relations and a significant moral and political exploration of the character of those relations".[79]

Anti-Tom literature

Aunt Phillis's Cabin by Mary Eastman, one of many examples of anti-Tom literature Title page forby Mary Eastman, one of many examples of anti-Tom literature

In response to Uncle Tom's Cabin, writers in the Southern United States produced a number of books to rebut Stowe's novel. This so-called Anti-Tom literature generally took a pro-slavery viewpoint, arguing that the issues of slavery as depicted in Stowe's book were overblown and incorrect. The novels in this genre tended to feature a benign white patriarchal master and a pure wife, both of whom presided over childlike slaves in a benevolent extended family style plantation. The novels either implied or directly stated that African Americans were a childlike people[80] unable to live their lives without being directly overseen by white people.[81]

Among the most famous anti-Tom books are The Sword and the Distaff by William Gilmore Simms, Aunt Phillis's Cabin by Mary Henderson Eastman, and The Planter's Northern Bride by Caroline Lee Hentz,[82] with the last author having been a close personal friend of Stowe's when the two lived in Cincinnati. Simms' book was published a few months after Stowe's novel, and it contains a number of sections and discussions disputing Stowe's book and her view of slavery. Hentz's 1854 novel, widely read at the time but now largely forgotten, offers a defense of slavery as seen through the eyes of a northern woman—the daughter of an abolitionist, no less—who marries a southern slave owner.

In the decade between the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin and the start of the American Civil War, between twenty and thirty anti-Tom books were published. Among these novels are two books titled Uncle Tom's Cabin As It Is (one by W. L. Smith and the other by C. H. Wiley) and a book by John Pendleton Kennedy. More than half of these anti-Tom books were written by white women, with Simms commenting at one point about the "Seemingly poetic justice of having the Northern woman (Stowe) answered by a Southern woman."[83]

Dramatic adaptations

Tom shows

Even though Uncle Tom's Cabin was the best-selling novel of the 19th century, far more Americans of that time saw the story as a stage play or musical than read the book.[85] Eric Lott, in his book Uncle Tomitudes: Racial Melodrama and Modes of Production, estimates that at least three million people saw these plays, ten times the book's first-year sales.

Given the lax copyright laws of the time, stage plays based on Uncle Tom's Cabin—"Tom shows"—began to appear while the novel was still being serialized. Stowe refused to authorize dramatization of her work because of her distrust of drama (although she did eventually go to see George L. Aiken's version and, according to Francis Underwood, was "delighted" by Caroline Howard's portrayal of Topsy).[86] Aiken's stage production continued as "the most popular play in England and America for seventy-five years."[87] Stowe's refusal to authorize a particular dramatic version left the field clear for any number of adaptations, some launched for (various) political reasons and others as simply commercial theatrical ventures.

No international copyright laws existed at the time. The book and plays were translated into several languages; Stowe received no money, which could have meant as much as "three fourths of her just and legitimate wages."[88]

On the plays

All Tom shows appear to have incorporated elements of melodrama and blackface minstrelsy.[89] These plays varied tremendously in their politics—some faithfully reflected Stowe's sentimentalized antislavery politics, while others were more moderate, or even pro-slavery.[86] Many of the productions featured demeaning racial caricatures of Black people,[89] while a number of productions also featured songs by Stephen Foster (including "My Old Kentucky Home", "Old Folks at Home", and "Massa's in the Cold Ground").[85] The best-known Tom Shows were those of George Aiken and H.J. Conway.[86]

The version by Aiken is perhaps the best known stage adaptation, released just a few months after the novel was published. This six-act behemoth also set an important precedent by being the first show on Broadway to stand on its own, without the performance of other entertainments or any afterpiece.[90] Most of Aiken's dialogue is lifted verbatim from Stowe's novel and it included four full musical numbers written by the producer, George C. Howard.[91] Another legacy of this adaptation is its reliance upon very different locations all portrayed on the same stage. This reliance led to large sets and set a precedent for the future days of film.[92] By focusing on the stark and desperate situations of his characters, Aiken appealed to the emotions of his audiences.[93] By combining this melodramatic approach with the content of Stowe's novel, Aiken helped to create a powerful visual indictment against the institution of slavery.

The many stage variants of Uncle Tom's Cabin "dominated northern popular culture... for several years" during the 19th century,[86] and the plays were still being performed in the early 20th century.

One of the unique and controversial variants of the Tom Shows was Walt Disney's 1933 Mickey's Mellerdrammer. Mickey's Mellerdrammer is a United Artists film released in 1933. The title is a corruption of "melodrama", thought to harken back to the earliest minstrel shows, as a film short based on a production of Uncle Tom's Cabin by the Disney characters. In that film, Mickey Mouse and friends stage their own production of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Mickey Mouse was already black-colored, but the advertising poster for the film shows Mickey dressed in blackface with exaggerated, orange lips; bushy, white sidewhiskers made out of cotton; and his trademark white gloves.

Film adaptations

Uncle Tom's Cabin has been adapted several times as a film. Most of these movies were created during the silent film era (Uncle Tom's Cabin was the most-filmed book of that time period).[94] Because of the continuing popularity of both the book and "Tom" shows, audiences were already familiar with the characters and the plot, making it easier for the film to be understood without spoken words.[94] There has been no Hollywood treatment since the end of the silent era.

The first film version of Uncle Tom's Cabin was one of the earliest full-length movies (although full-length at that time meant between 10 and 14 minutes).[95] This 1903 film, directed by Edwin S. Porter, used white actors in blackface in the major roles and black performers only as extras. This version was evidently similar to many of the "Tom Shows" of earlier decades and featured numerous stereotypes about blacks (such as having the slaves dance in almost any context, including at a slave auction).[95]

Uncle Tom's Cabin, which was one of the first full-length movies. The still shows Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and that she is running away to save her child. Still from Edwin S. Porter 's 1903 version of, which was one of the first full-length movies. The still shows Eliza telling Uncle Tom that he has been sold and that she is running away to save her child.

In 1910, a three-reel Vitagraph Company of America production was directed by J. Stuart Blackton and adapted by Eugene Mullin. According to The Dramatic Mirror, this film was "a decided innovation" in motion pictures and "the first time an American company" released a dramatic film in three reels. Until then, full-length movies of the time were 15 minutes long and contained only one reel of film. The movie starred Florence Turner, Mary Fuller, Edwin R. Phillips, Flora Finch, Genevieve Tobin and Carlyle Blackwell, Sr.[96]

At least four more movie adaptations were created in the next two decades. The last silent film version was released in 1927. Directed by Harry A. Pollard (who played Uncle Tom in a 1913 release of Uncle Tom's Cabin), this two-hour movie was more than a year in production and was the third most expensive picture of the silent era (at a cost of $1.8 million). The black actor Charles Gilpin was originally cast in the title role, but he was fired after the studio decided his "portrayal was too aggressive."[97] James B. Lowe took over the character of Tom. The screenplay takes many liberties with the original book, including altering the Eliza and George subplot, introducing the Civil War and Emancipation, and combining the characters of Eliza and Emmeline.[97] Another difference occurs after Tom dies: Simon Legree is haunted by an apparitional vision of the late Tom and falls to his death in a futile effort to attack the ghostly image.

Black media outlets of the time praised the film, but the studio—fearful of a backlash from Southern and white film audiences—ended up cutting out controversial scenes, including the film's opening sequence at a slave auction (in which a mother is torn away from her baby).[98] The story was adapted by Harvey F. Pollard, Thew and A. P. Younger, with titles by Walter Anthony. It starred James B. Lowe, Virginia Grey, George Siegmann, Margarita Fischer, Mona Ray and Madame Sul-Te-Wan.[97]

For several decades after the end of the silent film era, the subject matter of Stowe's novel was judged too sensitive for further film interpretation. In 1946, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer considered filming the story but ceased production after protests led by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.[99]

Uncle Tom's Cabin A movie poster from Kroger Babb 's 1965 production of

A German-language version, Onkel Toms Hütte, directed by Géza von Radványi, was released in 1965 and was presented in the United States by exploitation film presenter Kroger Babb.

The most recent film version was a television broadcast in 1987, directed by Stan Lathan and adapted by John Gay. It starred Avery Brooks, Phylicia Rashad, Edward Woodward, Jenny Lewis, Samuel L. Jackson and Endyia Kinney.

In addition to film adaptations, versions of Uncle Tom's Cabin have been produced in other formats. In Brazil, the adapted version A Cabana do Pai Tomás was produced as a TV soap opera by Rede Globo; with 205 episodes, it was aired from July 1969 to March 1970.

A number of animated cartoons were produced, including the Bugs Bunny cartoon Southern Fried Rabbit (1953), in which Bugs disguises himself as Uncle Tom and sings My Old Kentucky Home in order to cross the Mason-Dixon line; Uncle Tom's Bungalow (1937), a Warner Brothers cartoon supervised by Tex Avery; Eliza on Ice (1944), one of the earliest Mighty Mouse cartoons produced by Paul Terry; and Uncle Tom's Cabaña (1947), an eight-minute cartoon directed by Tex Avery.[99]

Uncle Tom's Cabin has influenced numerous movies, including The Birth of a Nation. This controversial 1915 film set the dramatic climax in a slave cabin similar to that of Uncle Tom, where several white Southerners unite with their former enemy (Yankee soldiers) to defend, according to the film's caption, their "Aryan birthright." According to scholars, this reuse of such a familiar image of a slave cabin would have resonated with, and been understood by, audiences of the time.[100]

Other movies influenced by or making use of Uncle Tom's Cabin include Dimples (a 1936 Shirley Temple film),[99] Uncle Tom's Uncle, (a 1926 Our Gang episode),[99] its 1932 remake Spanky, the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical The King and I (in which a ballet called "Small House of Uncle Thomas" is performed in traditional Siamese style), and Gangs of New York (in which Leonardo DiCaprio and Daniel Day-Lewis's characters attend an imagined wartime adaptation of Uncle Tom's Cabin).

See also

Collections

Major collections of Uncle Tom's Cabin books, ephemera, and artifacts reside at the Albert and Shirley Small Special Collections Library at the University of Virginia and the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.

Notes

References

So what you're saying is 'reading fiction is pointless'. No it isn't. 

This isn't a case of trying to teach you about the value of reading.

 What I'm going to say is this: 'Just because you don't *get it* doesn't mean it isn't a thing.'

This isn't something insignificant like using an emoji at the end of a text. #1#It's WRITTEN FICTION something that has been developed constantly since the beginning of writing some [8000 years ago] #1#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Writing).

So you don't like books. That's fine, but nobody is any under obligation to convince you of it's worth. But since this is CMV I'll link [this page](https://www.google.com.au/search?q=jk+rowling+net+worth&rlz=1C1CHFX_enAU675AU675&oq=jk+r&aqs=chrome.2.0j69i57j0l4.3471j0j9&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8). #2#1 billion is pretty good for someone who wrote something that has no value.#2#

I'd also like to point out that if this really is your opinion it makes you look immature as fuck.

But hey, you don't read.







https://www.google.com.au/search?q=jk+rowling+net+worth&rlz=1C1CHFX_enAU675AU675&oq=jk+r&aqs=chrome.2.0j69i57j0l4.3471j0j9&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
JK ROWLING NET WORTH
#2#Last year Rowling was estimated by the financial magazine to be worth about $1 billion, with most of her money coming from her books and the "Harry Potter" film franchise.#2# But Rowling hasn't been completely forgotten, she does still rank as number 61 on Forbes' list of powerful women.

#1#I don't see an Australian Jedi Party #1# [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_Australia) and #2#the only thing I can find on the Jedi phenomenon was from a [Census]#2#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jedi_census_phenomenon#Australia) and not for voting. #3#Also, that was .37% of the population#3# so hardly a significant amount.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jedi_census_phenomenon#Australia
JEDI CENSUS PHENOMENON
This article is about the census phenomenon. For Jediism the religion, see Jediism

A 2001 map of Jedi census phenomenon's effect in England and Wales

#2#The Jedi census phenomenon is a grassroots movement that was initiated in 2001 for residents of a number of English-speaking countries, urging them to record their religion as "Jedi" or "Jedi Knight" (after the quasi-religious order of Jedi Knights in the fictional Star Wars universe) on the national census.#2#

Impact [ edit ]

Australia [ edit ]

#3#In Australia more than 70,000 people (0.37%) declared themselves members of the Jedi order in the 2001 census.#3#[1] The Australian Bureau of Statistics issued an official press release[2] in response to media interest on the subject. The ABS announced that any answers that were Jedi-related in the religion question were to be classified as "not defined" and stressed the social impact of making misleading or false statements on the census. An ABS spokesperson said that "further analysis of census responses has been undertaken since the release of census data on June 17 to separately identify the number of Jedi-related responses".[1] It is believed that there is no numerical value that determines a religion per definition of the ABS, but there would need to be a belief system or philosophy as well as some form of institutional or organisational structure in place.[3]

The push for Australians to declare themselves as members of the Jedi order was one of the first examples of a concept going "viral" on the internet in Australia. The website which was set up to promote the concept was visited over 100,000 times in a five-week period and was first archived by the Wayback Machine on the 21st of October, 2001.[4]

The 2006 census recorded 58,053 Jedi.[5][6] In the 2011 census, the numbers listing their faith as Jedi had picked up from the 2006 census to 65,000.[7][8]

The Jedi Census phenomenon attracted the attention of sociologist of religion Adam Possamai who discusses it in his book Religion and Popular Culture: A Hyper-Real Testament.[9] Possamai’s study placed Jediism in the context of a specific methodological classification (‘hyper-real religions’) and attempted to demonstrate that hostility existed towards new religions in Australia.[10]

In the lead-up to the 2006 census, there were reports that writing Jedi on the 2006 census could lead to a fine for providing "false or misleading" information. This is despite previous admissions by the ABS that they were "fairly relaxed" about the issue in 2001 and that nobody had been prosecuted in at least 15 years.[11] In the lead-up to the 2016 census, there was a push from atheists warning not to use Jedi, imploring that it could be counted as being religious.[12]

Canada [ edit ]

In the 2001 census, 21,000 Canadians put down their religion as Jedi Knight. This fact was referenced by the prime minister's office as a rationale for making the 40-page long census form voluntary.[13] In the 2011 National Household Survey the number fell to 9,000.[14]

Croatia [ edit ]

In the 2011 census, 303 Croats put Jedi as their religion.[15]

Czech Republic [ edit ]

The 2011 census preliminarily recorded 15,070 people answering the voluntary question on religion as belonging to the Jedi religion, described by the Czech Statistics Office as "the moral values of the Jedi knights". The office noted that this is an international phenomenon. As the 2011 census form did not list religions, these having to be filled out, the total number of Jedi is not artificially boosted by those who were not aware of the phenomenon prior to filling out the census form. On the other hand, many people encouraged others in discussions and then media to fill the Jedi religion prior 2011 census (as a form of protest against range, overall cost and obligatory filling of the census), which is probably the cause.[16] The highest number of Jedi were recorded to live in Prague.[17]

Ireland [ edit ]

In a May 2012 review of the 2011 census, the Dáil Public Accounts Committee asked the Central Statistics Office about the reliability of self-reported answers, instancing people listing Jedi as their religion. The response was "We could probably tell you the number of people who have declared themselves as such, but we don't publish it".[18][19][20] The 2016 census results list all religions receiving more than 30 responses, including 2,050 under "Jedi Knight".[21][22]

Montenegro [ edit ]

In the 2011 census in Montenegro, a group of young men declared themselves as "Jedi" on the ethnicity question, as they believe that ethnicity should not be an issue today.[23]

New Zealand [ edit ]

Over 53,000 people listed themselves as Jedi in New Zealand's 2001 census. New Zealand had the highest per capita population of reported Jedi in the world that year, with 1.5% marking "Jedi" as their religion. The city of Dunedin had the highest population of reported Jedi per capita.[24] Statistics New Zealand treated Jedi responses as "Answer understood, but will not be counted". The percentages of religious affiliations were:

There was a fall in the number of New Zealand Jedi five years later, with some 20,000 people giving this as their religion in the 2006 census. It is unknown whether the numbers have continued to fall as the 2011 census was not completed due to an earthquake in Christchurch.[25]

Serbia [ edit ]

In 2012, it was reported that 640 Serbs had identified as Jedi.[26]

England and Wales [ edit ]

In England and Wales 390,127 people (almost 0.8%) stated their religion as Jedi on their 2001 Census forms, surpassing Sikhism, Judaism, and Buddhism, and making it the fourth largest reported religion in the country.[27] In the 2001 Census, 2.6% of the population of Brighton claimed to be Jedi. The percentages of religious affiliations were:

It was confirmed prior to the census that citizens were not liable for a fine in relation to question 10 (on religion).[28] This was based on section 1(2) of the Census (Amendment) Act 2000,[29] which amended section 8 of the Census Act 2000 to state that "no person shall be liable to a penalty under subsection (1) for refusing or neglecting to state any particulars in respect of religion". The change in the law was implemented by The Census (Amendment) Order 2000[30] and The Census (Amendment) Regulations 2000.[31]

Jedi was assigned its own code in the United Kingdom for census processing, the number 896.[32] Officials from the Office for National Statistics pointed out that this merely means that it has been registered as a common answer to the "religion" question and that this does not confer on it the status of official recognition. John Pullinger, Director of Reporting and Analysis for the Census, noted that many people who would otherwise not have completed a Census form did so solely to record themselves as Jedi, so this joke helped to improve the quality of the Census. The Office for National Statistics revealed the total figure in a press release entitled "390,000 Jedi there are".[33]

In June 2005, Jamie Reed, newly elected Labour Member of Parliament for Copeland in Cumbria, declared himself to be the first Jedi Member of Parliament during his maiden speech.[34] The statement, made in the context of an ongoing debate regarding the Incitement to Religious Hatred Bill, was confirmed by Reed's office to be a joke instead of a serious statement of faith. During a subsequent committee debate on the bill, the Conservative Member of Parliament for Beaconsfield, Dominic Grieve, proposed as "a bit of a joke" to exclude Jedi Knights from the protection of the proposed act, along with Satanists and proponents of animal sacrifice, illustrating the difficulty of defining religious belief in legislation.[35] Similarly, in April 2006, Edward Leigh, the Conservative Member of Parliament for Gainsborough, asked whether he would be allowed to set up a Jedi knights faith school during a Committee debate on the Education and Inspections Bill.[36]

On 16 November 2006, two Jedi delivered a protest letter to UN officials in recognition of the International Day for Tolerance. The letter, written by Simon Cohen of the Global Tolerance public relations agency,[37] requested that it be renamed the "UN Interstellar Day of Tolerance" and cited the 2001 Census showing 390,000 Jedi in England and Wales.[38]

According to 2011 census figures, the number of Jedi had fallen to 176,632, placing it in seventh place, having been overtaken by Judaism and Buddhism, but still comfortably outnumbering any other alternative or mock religions.[39] The magazine Metal Hammer also encouraged readers to mark "Heavy Metal" as their religion, leading to over 6,000 responses.[40]

Scotland [ edit ]

In Scotland, 14,052 people stated that Jedi was their current religion (14,014 "Jedi", 24 "Jedi Order" and 14 "Sith") and 2,733 stated that it was their religion of upbringing (2,682 "Jedi", 36 "Jedi Order" and 15 "The Dark Side") in the 2001 census.[41] The proportion of people stating their religion as Jedi in Scotland was lower than that in England and Wales, at 0.277%.[42]

In April 2009, it became known that eight police officers serving with Scotland's largest police force, Strathclyde, listed their official religion as Jedi in voluntary diversity forms. The details were obtained in a Freedom of Information request by Jane's Police Review.[43]

Turkey [ edit ]

On April 6, 2015, thousands of Turkish students raised their voices in campaigns to build Jedi and Buddhist temples at their universities, after a series of mosques were constructed on their campuses by rectors who stressed “huge demand.”[44] A number of Dokuz Eylül University students in the western province of Izmir have demanded a Jedi temple to be built on their campus.[45] "There are less and less Jedi left on the Earth... the nearest temple [is] billions of light years away," the petition says. It adds that "uneducated Padawan" are moving to the dark side... To recruit new Jedi and to bring balance to the Force, we want a Jedi temple,” said the petition that received more than 6,000 signatures on change.org, referring to the famed knights of the fictional Star Wars universe.[46] The page on Change.org also features a still of Jedi Grand Master Yoda from Star Wars: Episode II -- Attack of the Clones teaching young Jedi how to use a light saber. The petition was started by Akin Cagatay Caliskan, an 18-year-old computer science student from Ankara: "We want freedom of worship. There are mosques everywhere, but no Jedi temple!" Caliskan says he is surprised by the impact his petition has made: "I did not expect so many supporters. I thought maybe it might (have) 100."[44][47][48][49][50]

Criticism [ edit ]

The Australian Atheist Foundation objects to non-religious individuals answering with any joke answer, because this would lead to a census undercount of non-religious people, and lessen their political influence.[51]

See also [ edit ]

#1#The "never Trump" movement was actually championed by a certain group of conservatives, not Hillary's campaign.#1# 
 https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_Trump_movement 



https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_Trump_movement
STOP TRUMP MOVEMENT

#1#The Stop Trump movement, also called the anti-Trump, Dump Trump, or Never Trump movement,[1] was the informal name for the effort on the part of some Republicans and other prominent conservatives to prevent front-runner and now President of the United States Donald Trump from obtaining the Republican Party presidential nomination, and, following his nomination, the presidency, for the 2016 United States presidential election.#1# Although Trump's campaign drew a substantial amount of criticism, he was ultimately elected in November 2016 and sworn in as president on January 20, 2017.

The movement gained momentum following Trump's wins in the March 15, 2016, Super Tuesday primaries, including his victory over U.S. Senator Marco Rubio in Florida.[2][3][4][5] After U.S. Senator Ted Cruz dropped out of the race following Trump's primary victory in Indiana on May 3, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee, while internal opposition to Trump remained as the process pivoted towards a general election.[6]

Following unsuccessful attempts by some delegates at the Republican National Convention to block his nomination, Trump became the Republican Party's 2016 nominee for President of the United States on July 18, 2016. Some members of the Stop Trump movement endorsed alternative candidates in the general election, such as Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, independent conservative Evan McMullin, and American Solidarity Party nominee Mike Maturen.[7][8]

These efforts ultimately failed when Trump won the general election on November 8. Trump received 90% of the GOP vote, while Clinton won 89% of Democratic voters.[9]

Trump entered the Republican primaries on June 16, 2015, at a time when Governors Jeb Bush and Scott Walker and Senator Marco Rubio were viewed as the early frontrunners.[10] Trump was generally considered a longshot to win the nomination, but his large media profile gave him a chance to spread his message and appear in the Republican debates.[11][12] By the end of 2015, Trump was leading the Republican field in national polls.[13] Despite Trump's enduring strength in the polls, his rivals continued to attack each other rather than Trump.[14] In this atmosphere, some Republicans, such as former Mitt Romney adviser Alex Castellanos, called for a "negative ad blitz" against Trump,[14] and another former Romney aide founded Our Principles PAC to attack Trump.[15] After Trump won the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries, many Republican leaders called for the party to unite around a single leader to stop Trump's nomination.[16]
Erickson meeting Edit

Efforts Edit

On March 17, 2016, notable conservatives under the leadership of Erick Erickson met at the Army and Navy Club in Washington D.C. to discuss strategies for preventing Trump from securing the presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention in July. Among the strategies discussed were a "unity ticket",[17] a possible third-party candidate and a contested convention, especially if Trump did not gain the 1,237 delegates necessary to secure the nomination.[18]

The meeting was organized by Erick Erickson, Bill Wichterman, and Bob Fischer. Around two dozen people attended.[19][20] Consensus was reached that Trump's nomination could be prevented, and that efforts would be made to seek a unity ticket, possibly comprising U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich.[19]

General election opposition Edit

By political organizations	Edit
Our Principles PAC and Club for Growth were involved in trying to prevent Trump's nomination. Our Principles PAC spent more than $13 million on advertising attacking Trump.[21][22] The Club for Growth spent $11 million in an effort to prevent Trump from becoming the Republican Party's nominee.[23]

By Republican delegates	Edit
In June 2016, activists Eric O'Keefe and Dane Waters formed a group called Delegates Unbound, which CNN described as "an effort to convince delegates that they have the authority and the ability to vote for whomever they want."[24][25][26] The effort involved the publication of a book, Unbound: The Conscience of a Republican Delegate by Republican delegates Curly Haugland and Sean Parnell. The book argues that "delegates are not bound to vote for any particular candidate based on primary and caucus results, state party rules, or even state law."[27][28]

Republican delegates Kendal Unruh and Steve Lonegan led an Free the Delegates effort among fellow Republican delegates to change the convention rules "to include a 'conscience clause' that would allow delegates bound to Trump to vote against him, even on the first ballot at the July convention."[29] Unruh described the effort as "an 'Anybody but Trump' movement". According to The Washington Post, Unruh's efforts started with a conference call on June 16 "with at least 30 delegates from 15 states". Regional coordinators for the effort were recruited in Arizona, Iowa, Louisiana, Washington and other states.[30] By June 19, hundreds of delegates to the Republican National Convention calling themselves Free the Delegates had begun raising funds and recruiting members in support of an effort to change Party convention rules to free delegates to vote however they want – instead of according to the results of state caucuses and primaries.[31] Unruh, a member of the convention's Rules Committee and one of the group's founders, planned to propose adding the "conscience clause" to the convention's rules effectively unhinging pledged delegates. She needed 56 other supporters from the 112-member panel, which determines precisely how Republicans select their nominee in Cleveland.[32] However, the Rules Committee voted down, by a vote of 84–21, a move to send a "minority report" to the floor allowing the unbinding of delegates, thereby defeating the "Stop Trump" activists and guaranteeing Trump's nomination. The committee then endorsed the opposite option, voting 87–12 to include rules language specifically stating that delegates were required to vote based on their states' primary and caucus results.[33]

By individuals

At a luncheon in February 2016 attended by Republican governors and donors, Karl Rove discussed the danger of Trump securing the Republican nomination in July, and that it may be possible to stop him, but that there was not much time left.[34][35]

Early in March 2016, Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, directed some of his advisors to look at ways to stop Trump from obtaining the nomination at the Republican National Convention (RNC). Romney also spoke publicly urging voters to vote for the Republican candidate most likely to prevent Trump from acquiring delegates in state primaries.[36] A few weeks later, Romney announced that he would vote for Ted Cruz in the Utah GOP caucuses. On his Facebook page, he posted "Today, there is a contest between Trumpism and Republicanism. Through the calculated statements of its leader, Trumpism has become associated with racism, misogyny, bigotry, xenophobia, vulgarity and, most recently, threats and violence. I am repulsed by each and every one of these."[37][38][39] Nevertheless, Romney said early on he would "support the Republican nominee," though he didn’t "think that's going to be Donald Trump."[40]

U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham shifted from opposing both Ted Cruz and Donald Trump, to eventually supporting Cruz as a better alternative to Trump. Commenting about Trump, Graham said "I don't think he's a Republican, I don't think he's a conservative, I think his campaign's built on xenophobia, race-baiting and religious bigotry. I think he'd be a disaster for our party and as Senator Cruz would not be my first choice, I think he is a Republican conservative who I could support."[41][42] In May, after Trump became the presumptive nominee, Graham announced he would not be supporting Trump in the general election, stating "[I] cannot, in good conscience, support Donald Trump because I do not believe he is a reliable Republican conservative nor has he displayed the judgment and temperament to serve as Commander in Chief."[43]

In October 2016, some individuals made third-party vote trading mobile applications and websites to help stop Trump; for example a Californian that wants to vote for Clinton will instead vote for Jill Stein, and in exchange a Stein supporter in a swing state will vote for Clinton.[44] The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in the 2007 case Porter v. Bowen established vote trading as a First Amendment right.

Former Republican Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush both refused to support Trump in the general election.[45][46]

General election opposition

Trump was widely described as the presumptive Republican nominee after the May 3 Indiana primary,[6] notwithstanding the continued opposition of groups such as Our Principles PAC.[47] Many GOP leaders endorsed Trump after he became the presumptive nominee, but other Republicans looked for ways to defeat him in the general election.[48] Stop Trump members such as Mitt Romney, Eric Erickson, William Kristol, Mike Murphy, Stuart Stevens, and Rick Wilson pursued the possibility of an independent candidacy by a non-Trump Republican.[48] Potential candidates included Senator Ben Sasse, Governor John Kasich, Senator Tom Coburn, Congressman Justin Amash, Senator Rand Paul, retired Marine Corps General James Mattis, retired Army General Stanley McChrystal, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, businessman Mark Cuban, and 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney.[48][49] However, many of these candidates rejected the possibility of an independent run, pointing to difficulties such as ballot access and the potential to help the Democratic candidate win the presidency.[48] One potential strategy would involve an independent candidate gaining enough electoral votes to deny a majority to either of the major party candidates, sending the three presidential candidates with the most electoral votes to the U.S. House of Representatives under procedures established by the Twelfth Amendment.[50][51] Some anti-Trump Republicans stated that they would vote for Hillary Clinton in the general election.[52]

On May 3, 2016, one of the biggest anti-Trump groups, the "Never Trump PAC", circulated a petition to collect the signatures of conservatives opposed to voting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.[53][54] As of August 19, 2016, over 54,000 people had signed the petition.[55] Gary Johnson's campaign in the Libertarian Party attracted attention as a possible vehicle for the Stop Trump movement's votes in the general election after Trump became the Republican Party's presumptive nominee.[56][57][58] In late May, Craig Snyder, a former Republican staffer, launched the "Republicans For Hillary PAC", "aimed at convincing Republicans to choose Hillary Clinton over [...] Donald Trump in November."[59] Also, the grassroots effort, called "Republicans for Clinton in 2016", or R4C16, joined the effort in defeating Trump.[60]

William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, promoted National Review staff writer David A. French of Tennessee as a prospective candidate.[61][62][63] French opted not to run.[64][65] On August 8, Evan McMullin, a conservative Republican, announced that he would mount an independent bid for president, with support of the Never Trump movement.[66] McMullin was backed by Better for America, a Never Trump group,[67] and was supported by former Americans Elect CEO Kahlil Byrd and Republican campaign-finance lawyer Chris Ashby.[66]

Reactions Edit

Reactions to the Stop Trump movement were mixed, with other prominent Republicans making statements in support of preventing Trump from receiving the Republican nomination. Following his withdrawal as a candidate for President, U.S. Senator Marco Rubio expressed hope that Trump's nomination could be stopped, adding that his nomination "would fracture the party and be damaging to the conservative movement."[68]

Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus dismissed the potential impact of Mitt Romney's efforts to block Trump at the convention.[36] Sam Clovis, a national co-chairman for Trump's campaign, said that he would leave the Republican Party if it "comes into that convention and jimmies with the rules and takes away the will of the people".[41] Ned Ryun, founder of conservative group American Majority, expressed concern about a contested convention, should Trump have the most delegates, but fail to reach the 1,237 necessary to be assured the nomination. Ryun speculated that a contested convention would result in Trump running as a third-party candidate, making it unlikely that Republicans would win the presidency in the November general election, adding that it would "blow up the party, at least in the short term".[69][70]

New Jersey Governor Chris Christie expressed his opinion that the efforts to stop Trump will ultimately fail. Relatively shortly after his endorsement of Trump, he criticized the people who condemned his endorsement, including the Stop Trump movement, stating that his critics had yet to support any of the remaining GOP candidates. He said, "I think if you're a public figure, you have the obligation to speak out, and be 'for' something, not just 'against' something. ... When those folks in the 'Stop Trump' movement actually decide to be for something, then people can make an evaluation ... if they want to be for one of the remaining candidates, do what I did: Be for one of the remaining candidates."[71]

Trump said that if he were deprived of the nomination because of falling just short of the 1,237 delegates required, that there could be "problems like you've never seen before. I think bad things would happen" and "I think you’d have riots."[5][72][73] Trump made prior comments suggesting that he might run as an independent candidate if he were not to get the Republican nomination.[36]

Roger Stone, a political consultant who served as an advisor for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, and who remains a "confidant" to Trump,[74][75] put together a group called "Stop the Steal" and threatened "Days of Rage" if Republican party leaders try to deny the nomination to Trump at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.[76][77] Stone also threatened to disclose to the public the hotel room numbers of delegates who oppose Trump.[77]

Developments following the election Edit

After Trump won the election, two Electoral College electors launched an effort to convince fellow electors who are allocated to Trump not to vote for him.[78] On December 11, Jim Himes, a member of the House of Representatives, wrote on Twitter that the Electoral College should not elect Trump. "We're 5 wks from Inauguration & the President Elect is completely unhinged. The Electoral College must do what it was designed for."[79] On December 12, in an interview on CNN's New Day, Himes said that he was troubled by several actions by the president-elect. The issue that "pushed me over the edge" was Trump's criticism of the CIA and the intelligence community. The Congressman did admit that Trump won "fair and square," but he said that Trump proved himself unfit for public office. He cited the intentions behind the creation of the electoral college and he argued that it was created for an instance such as the election of Trump.[80] In the end, efforts to persuade more electors to vote against Trump ultimately failed, and Trump won 304 electors on December 19. Trump's electoral lead over Clinton even grew because a larger number of electors defected from her: Trump received 304 of his 306 pledged electors, Clinton 227 of her 232.[81] Jonah Goldberg, in an article titled Never Trump Nevermore, stated: "I’m going to call ’em like I see ’em and wait and see if I was wrong about Trump... The thing is: Never Trump is over. Never Trump was about the GOP primary and the general election, not the presidency. The Left wants to claim it must be a permanent movement, denying the legitimacy of Trump’s election forever, or we were never serious. Well, that’s not what we — or at least I — signed up for. ...I’ll say it again: I’m going to call ’em like I see ’em and wait and see if I was wrong about Trump. So far, I’ve said that most of his cabinet picks have been a pleasant and welcome surprise. But he’s also done plenty of things that make me feel like I had him pegged all along. We only have one president at a time — and the guy isn’t even president yet. I’ll give him a chance. But I won’t lie for him either." [82]

See also Edit

http://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_56d47177e4b03260bf777e83

https://www.google.com/amp/amp.timeinc.net/fortune/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/%3fsource=dam

It's easy to find more. I mean come on, #1#America elected a man who is literally going to trial for Fraud and Child Rape in a month!#1#



https://www.google.com/amp/amp.timeinc.net/fortune/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/%3fsource=dam
REDIRECT NOTICE
The previous page is sending you to http://fortune.com/2016/06/07/donald-trump-racism-quotes/ If you do not want to visit that page, you can return to the previous page

You don't vote in a vacuum.

Often (as in this election) you are forced to chose between two evils: such as a candidate who may be sexist, racist and bigoted  and a candidate who is a corrupt-to-the core liar.

Picking option (1) does not make sexist, racist and bigoted, it just means that you see sexism / racism / bigotry as a lesser evil than unabashed political corruption.  

Tl/DR: #1#Picking between a giant douche and a turd sandwich - does not make either a douche or a turd.#1#

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0BuPgrBwHU 



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0BuPgrBwHU
#1#SOUTH PARK GIANT DOUCHE VS TURD SANDWICH#1#
The interactive transcript could not be loaded.

Rating is available when the video has been rented.

This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.

I agree with the gist of what you're saying, but #1#I don't think Clinton's "deplorables" comments are *that* bad, when taken in the full context.#1#

>"You know, to just be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right? The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic -- you name it. And unfortunately there are people like that. And he has lifted them up. He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people -- now 11 million. He tweets and retweets their offensive hateful mean-spirited rhetoric. Now, some of those folks -- they are irredeemable, but thankfully they are not America."

>"But the other basket -- and I know this because I see friends from all over America here -- I see friends from Florida and Georgia and South Carolina and Texas -- as well as, you know, New York and California -- but that other basket of people are people who feel that the government has let them down, the economy has let them down, nobody cares about them, nobody worries about what happens to their lives and their futures, and they're just desperate for change. It doesn't really even matter where it comes from. They don't buy everything he says, but he seems to hold out some hope that their lives will be different. They won't wake up and see their jobs disappear, lose a kid to heroin, feel like they're in a dead-end. Those are people we have to understand and empathize with as well."

http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/09/politics/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-basket-of-deplorables/



http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/09/politics/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-basket-of-deplorables/
CLINTON EXPRESSES REGRET FOR SAYING 'HALF' OF TRUMP SUPPORTERS ARE 'DEPLORABLES'
New York (CNN) #1#Hillary Clinton expressed "regret" Saturday for comments in which she said "half" of Donald Trump's supporters are "deplorables," meaning people who are racist, sexist, homophobic or xenophobic.#1#

"Last night I was 'grossly generalistic,' and that's never a good idea. I regret saying 'half' -- that was wrong," Clinton said in a statement in which she also vowed to call out "bigotry" in Trump's campaign.

The Democratic presidential nominee sparked an uproar late Friday when she described Trump's supporters at a fundraiser.

"To just be grossly generalistic, you can put half of Trump supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables," Clinton said. "Right? Racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic, you name it."

She added: "And unfortunately, there are people like that and he has lifted them up. He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people, now have 11 million. He tweets and retweets offensive, hateful, mean-spirited rhetoric."

Clinton then said some of these people were "irredeemable" and "not America."

She described the rest of his supporters as people who are looking for change in any form because of economic anxiety and urged her supporters to empathize with them.

The Democratic presidential nominee made similar comments in an interview Thursday with an Israeli television station. But when they were widely reported Friday night, Trump and Republicans quickly pounced on the remarks, which drew comparisons to President Barack Obama's comments about clinging to "guns and religion" at a 2008 campaign fundraiser and Mitt Romney's "47 percent" remark in 2012.

"Isn't it disgraceful that Hillary Clinton makes the worst mistake of the political season and instead of owning up to this grotesque attack on American voters, she tries to turn it around with a pathetic rehash of the words and insults used in her failing campaign?" Trump said in a statement. "For the first time in a long while, her true feelings came out, showing bigotry and hatred for millions of Americans."

Trump's running mate, Mike Pence, forcefully condemned Clinton "in the strongest possible terms" Saturday at the Values Voter Summit in Washington.

"The truth of the matter is that the men and women who support Donald Trump's campaign are hard-working Americans, farmers, coal miners, teachers, veterans, members of our law enforcement community, members of every class of this country, who know that we can make America great again," Pence said.

"Let me just say, from the bottom of my heart, Hillary, they are not a basket of anything," Pence continued. "They are Americans and they deserve your respect."

JUST WATCHED Pence: Trump backers not 'basket of anything' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pence: Trump backers not 'basket of anything' 02:10

Clinton had earlier divided Trump's supporters into "two big baskets," what she called "the deplorables," in an interview with Channel 2 News Israel that aired Thursday.

"If I were to be grossly generalistic, I would say you can take Trump supporters and put them in two big baskets," Clinton said. "There are what I call the deplorables -- the racists, you know, the haters, and the people who are drawn because they think somehow he's going to restore an America that no longer exists. So just eliminate them from your thinking, because we've always had an annoying prejudicial element within our politics."

Clinton made the comments before introducing Barbra Streisand at an LGBT fundraiser in downtown New York.

According to average ticket prices and attendance figures provided by the campaign, Clinton raised around $6 million at the fundraiser, at which some attendees paid $50,000.

In seizing upon the comments, Trump used the opportunity to do some fundraising as well.

"Now is the time to show Hillary the consequences of her words," Trump's campaign wrote in an appeal to supporters. "I'm asking you and the millions of hard-working, patriotic Americans whom she just insulted, to fight back with a contribution of $100, $65, $50, $35, $25, $15, or even $5 to elect Donald Trump to the White House."

Clinton expresses regret

In her statement Saturday, Clinton was emphatic in condemning what she said was Trump's racially insensitive campaign.

She listed a series of controversial moments from Trump's campaign, including his fight with a Muslim Gold Star family, criticism of a federal US judge of Mexican heritage and his insinuation that Obama wasn't born in the US.

"I won't stop calling out bigotry and racist rhetoric in this campaign," Clinton said.

She also noted her comments about empathizing with other Trump supporters.

"As I said, many of Trump's supporters are hard-working Americans who just don't feel like the economy or our political system are working for them," Clinton said. "I'm determined to bring our country together and make our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top. Because we really are 'stronger together.'"

Around the same time Clinton issued her statement, Trump also made a case for unity.

"While Hillary said horrible things about my supporters, and while many of her supporters will never vote for me, I still respect them all!" Trump said on Twitter.

While Hillary said horrible things about my supporters, and while many of her supporters will never vote for me, I still respect them all! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2016

A senior Democrat close to the campaign told CNN it wants to have a conversation about what it sees as the racism in Trump's campaign, but could not have that part of the conversation until Clinton backed away from the "half" comment.

The Democrat added that Clinton's concession drew a contrast with Trump.

"She can admit when she is wrong -- Trump never does," the Democrat said.

'Prejudice and paranoia'

Clinton's comments amounted to startlingly blunt talk for a candidate who is usually measured in her assessment of the Republican nominee.

Although Clinton has accused Trump of racism before, she has never explicitly called him a racist. Last month , she delivered a major speech in which she accused Trump of aligning himself with far-right extremists and saying he "built his campaign on prejudice and paranoia."

"He's taking hate groups mainstream and helping a radical fringe take over the Republican Party," Clinton said in Reno, Nevada. "His disregard for the values that make our country great is profoundly dangerous."

Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Clinton's campaign, cited the speech in attempting to clarify the Democratic nominee's comments Friday night.

"Obviously not everyone supporting Trump is part of the alt right, but alt right leaders are with Trump," Merrill tweeted adding , "And their supporters appear to make up half his crowd when you observe the tone of his events."

Clinton's campaign was continuing to dig in Saturday morning as outrage swirled over the comment, though surrogates were emphasizing that Clinton was talking about Trump's supporters -- people who attend his rallies -- and not Trump voters, a larger group, in the eyes of the campaign, that includes more moderate Republicans.

Vice presidential nominee Tim Kaine told The Washington Post that Clinton's statement didn't require an apology.

"She said, 'Look, I'm generalizing here, but a lot of his support is coming from this odd place, that he's given a platform to the alt-right and white nationalists,'" Kaine told the newspaper. "But then she went on to say, 'Look, there's also a number of his supporters that have economic anxieties, and we've got to speak to those.'"

Added Kaine: "There are supporters we're not going to get."

Tyrone Gale, a Clinton spokesman, rejected Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway's call on Twitter for an apology by tweeting a New York Times video depicting vulgar and obscene comments made by some Trump supporters at his rallies.

And Bakari Sellers, a Clinton surrogate and CNN contributor, was defiant when asked about the remark.

"This election is about beating back bigotry and hate," Sellers said in an interview. "Whether it's 10% or 50%, Donald Trump and his supporters have elevated it. If you're not a bigot, her comments shouldn't offend you."

The Clinton campaign directed surrogates on Saturday night to push the press if asked about the "basket of deplorables" comment, according to a talking points obtained by CNN.

"I think we can all agree that if Donald Trump said something controversial about Clinton supporters, it wouldn't have been in his top 10 list of offensive statements in a day. It's well past time the press stopped grading Trump on a curve," the talking points said. "So is the press going to cover this story in the right contact, or are they going to hold Hillary to a different standard again?"

#BasketofDeplorables

The controversy recalled rhetorical stumbles in previous campaigns. In 2008, Obama told an audience at a closed fundraiser that decades of lost jobs and unfulfilled promises from Washington had left some Pennsylvanians "bitter" and clinging "to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations."

He later acknowledged that the comment was "boneheaded."

And late in the 2012 campaign, Romney, the GOP nominee, was memorably caught in a secretly recorded video telling donors that "there are 47 percent of the people who will vote for the President no matter what," saying they "believe they are victims, who believe that government has the responsibility to care for them. Who believe that they are entitled to health care, to food, to housing."

Romney later told reporters the comments were "not elegantly stated."

Trump himself invoked the gaffe to slam Clinton Saturday night, also retweeting Obama's remark four years ago that "We need a President who is fighting for all Americans, not one who writes off nearly half the country."

What separates Obama and Romney's comments from Clinton's, however, is that they believed their remarks were private. Clinton's event on Friday was only the sixth out of the more than 330 fundraisers she's attended as a candidate that was open to the press.

Almost immediately, "#BasketofDeplorables" began trending on Twitter, and conservatives and Trump supporters were predictably outraged.

"The truly deplorable thing in this race is the shameful level of condescension & disrespect @HillaryClinton's showing to her fellow citizens," Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said on Twitter.

The truly deplorable thing in this race is the shameful level of condescension & disrespect @HillaryClinton's showing to her fellow citizens — Reince Priebus (@Reince) September 10, 2016

Conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt suggested Trump open each speech by asking his crowds, "So, which half of you are in the #basketofdeplorables?"

4 @realDonaldTrump: Every speech should start "So, which half of you are in the #basketofdeplorables?" In every TV hit you should reference. — Hugh Hewitt (@hughhewitt) September 10, 2016

Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol, a notable Trump critic, tweeted, "Hillary Clinton's creed: 'All men are created equal' -- except for those I've consigned to the basket of deplorables, who are irredeemable."

Hillary Clinton's creed: "All men are created equal" -- except for those I've consigned to the basket of deplorables, who are irredeemable. — Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) September 10, 2016

Even some Democrats noted the political opportunity Clinton had given Republicans.

"'Basket of deplorables' reminds me of 'binders full of women.' Equally tone deaf statements divorced from reality," tweeted Lis Smith, Obama's director of rapid response during his 2012 campaign.

"Basket of deplorables" reminds me of "binders full of women." Equally tone deaf statements divorced from reality. https://t.co/Nc1nPPAcUK — Lis Smith (@Lis_Smith) September 10, 2016

David Axelrod, a former chief strategist to Obama who is now a CNN commentator, referenced the controversy over Obama's "guns and religion" line at a 2008 fundraiser, tweeting, "Fundraiser remarks are treacherous things."

Fundraiser remarks are treacherous things. https://t.co/BF87ArNIwM — David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) September 10, 2016

Speaking to CNN's Michael Smerconish Saturday morning, Bob Beckel, who managed Walter Mondale's 1984 presidential campaign, offered no defense of Clinton.

"It's the wrong thing to say," Beckel said.

Right. However, I think the more important take away is that the personal imperative to vote for a person is going to be different for every person.  As a very strict and arbitrary example: 

If you think Gays not being able to get married is a 10/10 on your personal "Oh shit" meter, you are going to prioritize that thusly when you select your candidate.

If I on the other hand Prioritize a candidate who is going to help people find work and the unemployment rate is a 10/10 on my "Oh Shit" Meter I am going to vote for that person.


We both want gay people to get married, It's just lower on my personal pecking order. We both also probably want older people to be able to fend for themselves before retirement. Does that make me a homophobe? Does that mean you hate the older working class who are socially immobile and set in their ways? Does it mean I want to hinder homosexuals? etc. Why are a specific portion of the population's rights more important than the economic prosperity of the entire country? I value their right to get married, but even if we help them we are only helping a specific percentage of people.

People are allowed to vote for their interests, and that's not an evil thing to do. It's when their interests are terrible that is an issue. But the people are not Donald Trump and Donald Trump's specific values that are exclusive to him do not represent the people who voted for them, who also have their own sets of specific values.

But let's set this argument aside. You're committing a fallacy. #1#[Reductio ad Hitlerum]#1#(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductio_ad_Hitlerum) It's specifically about Hitler, but the actual fallacy part is the important piece. If I draw breath, and Hitler Drew breath, does that make me as bad as Hitler? If I share some of Donald Trumps qualities, does that make me as bad as Donald Trump? Obviously not.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductio_ad_Hitlerum
REDUCTIO AD HITLERUM
#1#Reductio ad Hitlerum (pseudo-Latin for "reduction to Hitler"; sometimes argumentum ad Hitlerum, "argument to Hitler", ad Nazium, "to Nazism"), or playing the Nazi card, is an attempt to invalidate someone else's position on the basis that the same view was held by Adolf Hitler or the Nazi Party#1#,[1] for example: "Hitler was against tobacco smoking, X is against tobacco smoking, therefore X is a Nazi".

Coined by Leo Strauss in 1951, reductio ad Hitlerum borrows its name from the term used in logic, reductio ad absurdum (reduction to the absurd).[1] According to Strauss, reductio ad Hitlerum is a form of ad hominem, ad misericordiam, or a fallacy of irrelevance. The suggested rationale is one of guilt by association. It is a tactic often used to derail arguments, because such comparisons tend to distract and anger the opponent, as Hitler and Nazism have been condemned in the modern world.[2]

Fallacious nature [ edit ]

Reductio ad Hitlerum is a form of association fallacy.[2][3] The argument is that a policy leads to – or is the same as – one advocated or implemented by Adolf Hitler or the Third Reich and so "proves" that the original policy is undesirable.

Another instance of reductio ad Hitlerum is asking a question of the form "You know who else...?" with the deliberate intent of impugning a certain idea or action by implying Hitler held that idea or performed such action.[4]

An invocation of Hitler or Nazism is not a reductio ad Hitlerum when it illuminates the argument instead of causing distraction from it.[5]

History [ edit ]

The phrase reductio ad Hitlerum is first known to have been used in an article written by University of Chicago professor Leo Strauss for Measure: A Critical Journal in spring 1951;[6] it was made famous in a book by the same author published in 1953[1] Natural Right and History, Chapter II:

In following this movement towards its end we shall inevitably reach a point beyond which the scene is darkened by the shadow of Hitler. Unfortunately, it does not go without saying that in our examination we must avoid the fallacy that in the last decades has frequently been used as a substitute for the reductio ad absurdum: the reductio ad Hitlerum. A view is not refuted by the fact that it happens to have been shared by Hitler.

The phrase was derived from the legitimate logical argument called reductio ad absurdum. The argumentum variant takes its form from the names of many classic fallacies, such as argumentum ad hominem. The ad Nazium variant may be further derived, humorously, from argumentum ad nauseam.

In 2000 traditionalist Catholic[citation needed] Thomas Fleming described its use against traditional values:

Leo Strauss called it the reductio ad Hitlerum. If Hitler liked neoclassical art, that means that classicism in every form is Nazi; if Hitler wanted to strengthen the German family, that makes the traditional family (and its defenders) Nazi; if Hitler spoke of the "nation" or the "folk", then any invocation of nationality, ethnicity, or even folkishness is Nazi ...[7]

Limits to classification as a fallacy [ edit ]

It has been argued by some historians studying the Holocaust that not all comparisons to Hitler and Nazism are always logical fallacies since if they all were, there would be nothing to learn from the events that led to the Holocaust. That would undermine the entire significance of studying the Holocaust to avoid future genocides.[8][9]

Proponents of this point do make distinctions between many different categories of comparison(s) to Hitler, some of which are fallacies, some of which are not, and some of which may or may not be fallacies. This approach is also critical to strict refusal to acknowledge similarities to the Holocaust, since there were early stages leading up to it and policies today can be comparable to those without being comparable to the "final solution". Advocates of this approach argue that such early stages are those where something can really be done about it, before it is too late.[10] Categories include:

Similarities that are not in any way related to political or institutional decision making, e.g. going on walks or wearing expensive clothes. These are invariably fallacies when used as arguments.

Similarities that are related to politics, in the absence of centralized power. This example usually refers to political party and movements still struggling to gain power. These similarities can only be to early stages of Nazism, not to a full-blown organized genocide. These comparisons may or may not be fallacies: a detailed analysis of methods, decision-making and ideology is necessary to determine that.

Pointing out that Hitler did some things that are often considered to be related to being good in the context of criticizing psychological assumptions of them being connected, without implying that anyone doing them are like Hitler in other ways. E.g. that Hitler's engagement for animal protection shows that treatment of animals is divorced from treatment of humans, not implying a negative connection but mere non-connection. This is not an example of the fallacy, though not directly related to the study of organized genocide either.

Pointing out that the Nazis believed in some things that are often thought to be protection from persecution within the context of rejecting assumptions about connections between concepts and tolerance. For example that the Nazis believed homosexuality to be innate and far from tolerating it extended their homophobia to relatives as well, just to show that ideas on origin of a behavior (in this case homosexuality, but also applicable to other things) is unrelated to tolerance of said behavior and not implying that an idea is Nazi-like. This is not a fallacy. It does not show what should be done to prevent repetition, but it narrows it down by eliminating irrelevancies.

Pointing out similarities between the Nazi chain of command and modern chain of command as a risk factor for genocide shared between Nazi and modern society in general without applying it to individuals specifically, e.g. that administrative and military laws are significant risk factors. It does not imply advocacy of a repetition of the Nuremberg trials to those who only follow orders/obey laws, partly since referring to that trial as a source of authority would promote the death penalty exactly as much as "superior orders is no defense" and partly since forcing individual executioners into a damned if you do and damned if you don't situation is ineffective for preventing organized genocides like the Holocaust. Instead, it is criticism of structures and laws that lead to dangerous officiousness. This is not a fallacy. It is relevant for genocide studies.[10]

Antecedents [ edit ]

Although named for and formalized around Hitler, the logical fallacy existed prior to the Second World War. There were other individuals from history who were used as stand-ins for pure evil.[11] In the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries the Pharaoh of the Book of Exodus was commonly seen as the most villainous person in history.[11] In the years prior to the Civil War, abolitionists referred to slaveholders as modern-day Pharaohs. After VE Day, Pharaoh continued to appear in the speeches of social reformers like Martin Luther King Jr.[11] Judas Iscariot and Pontius Pilate were also commonly held up as pure evil. However, there was no universal Hitler-like person and different regions and times used different stand-ins.[11] In the years after the American Revolution, King George III was often vilified in the United States. Andrew Jackson was also called King Andrew the First. During the Civil War, some Southerners spoke of Lincoln in Hitler-like terms. Some Confederates even called Lincoln a "modern Pharaoh".[11]

Invocations [ edit ]

In 1991, Michael André Bernstein alleged reductio ad Hitlerum over a full-page advertisement placed in The New York Times by the Lubavitch community, following the Crown Heights Riot, under the heading "This Year Kristallnacht Took Place on August 19th Right Here in Crown Heights." Henry Schwarzschild, who had witnessed Kristallnacht, wrote to the New York Times that "however ugly were the anti-Semitic slogans and the assaultive behavior of people in the streets [during the Crown Heights riots]... one thing that clearly did not take place was a Kristallnacht."[12]

American conservative radio and television host Glenn Beck is often criticized for his frequent use of reductio ad Hitlerum, including a controversial statement comparing the victims of the 2011 Norway attacks to members of the Hitler Youth.[13] Beck has also compared the National Endowment for the Arts to Joseph Goebbels[14] and ACORN to Hitler's "Brown Shirts".[15]

The American Conservative accused Jonah Goldberg's book Liberal Fascism of employing the reductio fallacy:

That Nazism and contemporary liberalism both promote healthy living is as meaningless a finding as that bloody marys and martinis may both be made with gin. Repeatedly, Goldberg fails to recognize a reductio ad absurdum. ... In no case does Goldberg uncover anything more ominous than a coincidence.[16]

See also [ edit ]

Note: This post may be offensive to religious, spiritualist, or superstitious people. Sorry, but these are my views. I'm open to having them changed but tempering them for this post would not be helpful. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permian%E2%80%93Triassic_extinction_event
PERMIAN–TRIASSIC EXTINCTION EVENT
Marine extinction intensity during the Phanerozoic % Millions of years ago (H) K–Pg Tr–J P–Tr Cap Late D O–S [1] Geological periods are annotated (by abbreviation and colour) above. #2#The Permian–Triassic extinction event is the most significant event for marine genera, with just over 50% (according to this source) failing to survive.#2# (source and image info) Plot of extinction intensity (percentage of marine genera that are present in each interval of time but do not exist in the following interval) vs time in the past.Geological periods are annotated (by abbreviation and colour) above. The Permian–Triassic extinction event is the most significant event for marine genera, with just over 50% (according to this source) failing to survive.

The Permian–Triassic (P–Tr or P–T) extinction event, colloquially known as the Great Dying,[2] the End-Permian Extinction or the Great Permian Extinction,[3][4] occurred about 252 Ma (million years) ago,[5] forming the boundary between the Permian and Triassic geologic periods, as well as the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras. It is the Earth's most severe known extinction event, with up to 96% of all marine species[6][7] and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species becoming extinct.[8] It is the only known mass extinction of insects.[9][10] Some 57% of all families and 83% of all genera became extinct. Because so much biodiversity was lost, the recovery of life on Earth took significantly longer than after any other extinction event,[6] possibly up to 10 million years.[11] Studies in Bear Lake County near Paris, Idaho showed a quick and dynamic rebound in a marine ecosystem, illustrating the remarkable resiliency of life.[12]

There is evidence for one to three distinct pulses, or phases, of extinction.[8][13][14][15] Suggested mechanisms for the latter include one or more large meteor impact events, massive volcanism such as that of the Siberian Traps, and the ensuing coal or gas fires and explosions,[16] and a runaway greenhouse effect triggered by sudden release of methane from the sea floor due to methane clathrate dissociation according to the clathrate gun hypothesis or methane-producing microbes known as methanogens.[17] Possible contributing gradual changes include sea-level change, increasing anoxia, increasing aridity, and a shift in ocean circulation driven by climate change.

Dating the extinction [ edit ]

Until 2000, it was thought that rock sequences spanning the Permian–Triassic boundary were too few and contained too many gaps for scientists to reliably determine its details.[21] However, it is now possible to date the extinction with millennial precision. U–Pb zircon dates from five volcanic ash beds from the Global Stratotype Section and Point for the Permian–Triassic boundary at Meishan, China, establish a high-resolution age model for the extinction – allowing exploration of the links between global environmental perturbation, carbon cycle disruption, mass extinction, and recovery at millennial timescales. The extinction occurred between 251.941 ± 0.037 and 251.880 ± 0.031 Ma, a duration of 60 ± 48 ka.[22] A large (approximately 0.9%), abrupt global decrease in the ratio of the stable isotope 13

C to that of 12

C, coincides with this extinction,[19][23][24][25][26] and is sometimes used to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating.[27] Further evidence for environmental change around the P–Tr boundary suggests an 8 °C (14 °F) rise in temperature,[19] and an increase in CO

2 levels by 6997200000000000000♠2000 ppm (for comparison, the concentration immediately before the industrial revolution was 6996279999999999999♠280 ppm.)[19] There is also evidence of increased ultraviolet radiation reaching the earth, causing the mutation of plant spores.[19]

It has been suggested that the Permian–Triassic boundary is associated with a sharp increase in the abundance of marine and terrestrial fungi, caused by the sharp increase in the amount of dead plants and animals fed upon by the fungi.[28] For a while this "fungal spike" was used by some paleontologists to identify the Permian–Triassic boundary in rocks that are unsuitable for radiometric dating or lack suitable index fossils, but even the proposers of the fungal spike hypothesis pointed out that "fungal spikes" may have been a repeating phenomenon created by the post-extinction ecosystem in the earliest Triassic.[28] The very idea of a fungal spike has been criticized on several grounds, including: Reduviasporonites, the most common supposed fungal spore, was actually a fossilized alga;[19][29] the spike did not appear worldwide;[30][31] and in many places it did not fall on the Permian–Triassic boundary.[32] The algae, which were misidentified as fungal spores, may even represent a transition to a lake-dominated Triassic world rather than an earliest Triassic zone of death and decay in some terrestrial fossil beds.[33] Newer chemical evidence agrees better with a fungal origin for Reduviasporonites, diluting these critiques.[34]

Uncertainty exists regarding the duration of the overall extinction and about the timing and duration of various groups' extinctions within the greater process. Some evidence suggests that there were multiple extinction pulses[8] or that the extinction was spread out over a few million years, with a sharp peak in the last million years of the Permian.[32][35] Statistical analyses of some highly fossiliferous strata in Meishan, Zhejiang Province in southeastern China, suggest that the main extinction was clustered around one peak.[13] Recent research shows that different groups became extinct at different times; for example, while difficult to date absolutely, ostracod and brachiopod extinctions were separated by 670 to 1170 thousand years.[36] In a well-preserved sequence in east Greenland, the decline of animals is concentrated in a period 10 to 7001600000000000000♠60 thousand years long, with plants taking several hundred thousand additional years to show the full impact of the event.[37] An older theory, still supported in some recent papers,[8][38] is that there were two major extinction pulses 9.4 million years apart, separated by a period of extinctions well above the background level, and that the final extinction killed off only about 80% of marine species alive at that time while the other losses occurred during the first pulse or the interval between pulses. According to this theory one of these extinction pulses occurred at the end of the Guadalupian epoch of the Permian.[8][39] For example, all but one of the surviving dinocephalian genera died out at the end of the Guadalupian,[40] as did the Verbeekinidae, a family of large-size fusuline foraminifera.[41] The impact of the end-Guadalupian extinction on marine organisms appears to have varied between locations and between taxonomic groups—brachiopods and corals had severe losses.[42][43]

Extinction patterns [ edit ]

Marine extinctions Genera extinct Notes Arthropoda Eurypterids 100% May have become extinct shortly before the P–Tr boundary Ostracods 59% Trilobites 100% In decline since the Devonian; only 2 genera living before the extinction Brachiopoda Brachiopods 96% Orthids and productids died out Bryozoa Bryozoans 79% Fenestrates, trepostomes, and cryptostomes died out Chordata Acanthodians 100% In decline since the Devonian, with only one living family Cnidaria Anthozoans 96% Tabulate and rugose corals died out Echinodermata Blastoids 100% May have become extinct shortly before the P–Tr boundary Crinoids 98% Inadunates and camerates died out Mollusca Ammonites 97% Bivalves 59% Gastropods 98% Retaria Foraminiferans 97% Fusulinids died out, but were almost extinct before the catastrophe Radiolarians 99%[44]

Marine organisms [ edit ]

Marine invertebrates suffered the greatest losses during the P–Tr extinction. Evidence of this was found in samples from south China sections at the P–Tr boundary. Here, 286 out of 329 marine invertebrate genera disappear within the final 2 sedimentary zones containing conodonts from the Permian.[13] The decrease in diversity was probably caused by a sharp increase in extinctions, rather than a decrease in speciation.[45]

The extinction primarily affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons, especially those reliant on stable CO 2 levels to produce their skeletons.[46] These organisms were susceptible to the effects of the ocean acidification that resulted from increased atmospheric CO 2 .

Among benthic organisms the extinction event multiplied background extinction rates, and therefore caused maximum species loss to taxa that had a high background extinction rate (by implication, taxa with a high turnover).[47][48] The extinction rate of marine organisms was catastrophic.[13][49][50][51]

Surviving marine invertebrate groups include: articulate brachiopods (those with a hinge),[52] which have undergone a slow decline in numbers since the P–Tr extinction; the Ceratitida order of ammonites;[53] and crinoids ("sea lilies"),[53] which very nearly became extinct but later became abundant and diverse.

The groups with the highest survival rates generally had active control of circulation, elaborate gas exchange mechanisms, and light calcification; more heavily calcified organisms with simpler breathing apparatuses suffered the greatest loss of species diversity.[18][54] In the case of the brachiopods, at least, surviving taxa were generally small, rare members of a formerly diverse community.[55]

The ammonoids, which had been in a long-term decline for the 30 million years since the Roadian (middle Permian), suffered a selective extinction pulse 10 million years before the main event, at the end of the Capitanian stage. In this preliminary extinction, which greatly reduced disparity, or the range of different ecological guilds, environmental factors were apparently responsible. Diversity and disparity fell further until the P–Tr boundary; the extinction here (P–Tr) was non-selective, consistent with a catastrophic initiator. During the Triassic, diversity rose rapidly, but disparity remained low.[56]

The range of morphospace occupied by the ammonoids, that is, their range of possible forms, shapes or structures, became more restricted as the Permian progressed. A few million years into the Triassic, the original range of ammonoid structures was once again reoccupied, but the parameters were now shared differently among clades.[57]

Terrestrial invertebrates [ edit ]

The Permian had great diversity in insect and other invertebrate species, including the largest insects ever to have existed. The end-Permian is the only known mass extinction of insects,[9] with eight or nine insect orders becoming extinct and ten more greatly reduced in diversity. Palaeodictyopteroids (insects with piercing and sucking mouthparts) began to decline during the mid-Permian; these extinctions have been linked to a change in flora. The greatest decline occurred in the Late Permian and was probably not directly caused by weather-related floral transitions.[49]

Most fossil insect groups found after the Permian–Triassic boundary differ significantly from those that lived prior to the P–Tr extinction. With the exception of the Glosselytrodea, Miomoptera, and Protorthoptera, Paleozoic insect groups have not been discovered in deposits dating to after the P–Tr boundary. The caloneurodeans, monurans, paleodictyopteroids, protelytropterans, and protodonates became extinct by the end of the Permian. In well-documented Late Triassic deposits, fossils overwhelmingly consist of modern fossil insect groups.[9]

Terrestrial plants [ edit ]

Plant ecosystem response [ edit ]

The geological record of terrestrial plants is sparse and based mostly on pollen and spore studies. Interestingly, plants are relatively immune to mass extinction, with the impact of all the major mass extinctions "insignificant" at a family level.[19] Even the reduction observed in species diversity (of 50%) may be mostly due to taphonomic processes.[19] However, a massive rearrangement of ecosystems does occur, with plant abundances and distributions changing profoundly and all the forests virtually disappearing;[19][58] the Palaeozoic flora scarcely survived this extinction.[59]

At the P–Tr boundary, the dominant floral groups changed, with many groups of land plants entering abrupt decline, such as Cordaites (gymnosperms) and Glossopteris (seed ferns).[60] Dominant gymnosperm genera were replaced post-boundary by lycophytes—extant lycophytes are recolonizers of disturbed areas.[61]

Palynological or pollen studies from East Greenland of sedimentary rock strata laid down during the extinction period indicate dense gymnosperm woodlands before the event. At the same time that marine invertebrate macrofauna declined, these large woodlands died out and were followed by a rise in diversity of smaller herbaceous plants including Lycopodiophyta, both Selaginellales and Isoetales. Later, other groups of gymnosperms again become dominant but again suffered major die offs. These cyclical flora shifts occurred a few times over the course of the extinction period and afterwards. These fluctuations of the dominant flora between woody and herbaceous taxa indicate chronic environmental stress resulting in a loss of most large woodland plant species. The successions and extinctions of plant communities do not coincide with the shift in δ13C values, but occurred many years after.[31] The recovery of gymnosperm forests took 4–5 million years.[19]

Coal gap [ edit ]

No coal deposits are known from the Early Triassic, and those in the Middle Triassic are thin and low-grade.[20] This "coal gap" has been explained in many ways. It has been suggested that new, more aggressive fungi, insects and vertebrates evolved, and killed vast numbers of trees. These decomposers themselves suffered heavy losses of species during the extinction, and are not considered a likely cause of the coal gap.[20] It could simply be that all coal forming plants were rendered extinct by the P–Tr extinction, and that it took 10 million years for a new suite of plants to adapt to the moist, acid conditions of peat bogs.[20] On the other hand, abiotic factors (not caused by organisms), such as decreased rainfall or increased input of clastic sediments, may also be to blame.[19] Finally, it is also true that there are very few sediments of any type known from the Early Triassic, and the lack of coal may simply reflect this scarcity. This opens the possibility that coal-producing ecosystems may have responded to the changed conditions by relocating, perhaps to areas where we have no sedimentary record for the Early Triassic.[19] For example, in eastern Australia a cold climate had been the norm for a long period of time, with a peat mire ecosystem adapted to these conditions. Approximately 95% of these peat-producing plants went locally extinct at the P–Tr boundary;[62] Interestingly, coal deposits in Australia and Antarctica disappear significantly before the P–Tr boundary.[19]

Terrestrial vertebrates [ edit ]

There is enough evidence to indicate that over two-thirds of terrestrial labyrinthodont amphibians, sauropsid ("reptile") and therapsid ("proto-mammal") families became extinct. Large herbivores suffered the heaviest losses.

All Permian anapsid reptiles died out except the procolophonids (although testudines have morphologically anapsid skulls, they are now thought to have separately evolved from diapsid ancestors). Pelycosaurs died out before the end of the Permian. Too few Permian diapsid fossils have been found to support any conclusion about the effect of the Permian extinction on diapsids (the "reptile" group from which lizards, snakes, crocodilians, and dinosaurs (including birds) evolved).[63][64]

The groups that survived suffered extremely heavy losses of species, and some terrestrial vertebrate groups very nearly became extinct at the end-Permian. Some of the surviving groups did not persist for long past this period, while others that barely survived went on to produce diverse and long-lasting lineages. Yet it took 30 million years for the terrestrial vertebrate fauna to fully recover both numerically and ecologically.[65]

Possible explanations of these patterns [ edit ]

An analysis of marine fossils from the Permian's final Changhsingian stage found that marine organisms with low tolerance for hypercapnia (high concentration of carbon dioxide) had high extinction rates, while the most tolerant organisms had very slight losses.

The most vulnerable marine organisms were those that produced calcareous hard parts (i.e., from calcium carbonate) and had low metabolic rates and weak respiratory systems—notably calcareous sponges, rugose and tabulate corals, calcite-depositing brachiopods, bryozoans, and echinoderms; about 81% of such genera became extinct. Close relatives without calcareous hard parts suffered only minor losses, for example sea anemones, from which modern corals evolved. Animals with high metabolic rates, well-developed respiratory systems, and non-calcareous hard parts had negligible losses—except for conodonts, in which 33% of genera died out.[66]

This pattern is consistent with what is known about the effects of hypoxia, a shortage but not a total absence of oxygen. However, hypoxia cannot have been the only killing mechanism for marine organisms. Nearly all of the continental shelf waters would have had to become severely hypoxic to account for the magnitude of the extinction, but such a catastrophe would make it difficult to explain the very selective pattern of the extinction. Models of the Late Permian and Early Triassic atmospheres show a significant but protracted decline in atmospheric oxygen levels, with no acceleration near the P–Tr boundary. Minimum atmospheric oxygen levels in the Early Triassic are never less than present day levels—the decline in oxygen levels does not match the temporal pattern of the extinction.[66]

Marine organisms are more sensitive to changes in CO 2 (carbon dioxide) levels than are terrestrial organisms for a variety of reasons. CO 2 is 28 times more soluble in water than is oxygen. Marine animals normally function with lower concentrations of CO 2 in their bodies than land animals, as the removal of CO 2 in air-breathing animals is impeded by the need for the gas to pass through the respiratory system's membranes (lungs' alveolus, tracheae, and the like), even when CO 2 diffuses more easily than oxygen. In marine organisms, relatively modest but sustained increases in CO 2 concentrations hamper the synthesis of proteins, reduce fertilization rates, and produce deformities in calcareous hard parts.[66] In addition, an increase in CO 2 concentration is inevitably linked to ocean acidification, consistent with the preferential extinction of heavily calcified taxa and other signals in the rock record that suggest a more acidic ocean.[67] The decrease in ocean pH is calculated to be up to 0.7 units.[68]

It is difficult to analyze extinction and survival rates of land organisms in detail, because few terrestrial fossil beds span the Permian–Triassic boundary. Triassic insects are very different from those of the Permian, but a gap in the insect fossil record spans approximately 15 million years from the late Permian to early Triassic. The best-known record of vertebrate changes across the Permian–Triassic boundary occurs in the Karoo Supergroup of South Africa, but statistical analyses have so far not produced clear conclusions.[66] However, analysis of the fossil river deposits of the floodplains indicate a shift from meandering to braided river patterns, indicating an abrupt drying of the climate.[69] The climate change may have taken as little as 100,000 years, prompting the extinction of the unique Glossopteris flora and its herbivores, followed by the carnivorous guild.[70] End-Permian extinctions did not occur at an instantaneous time horizon; particularly, floral extinction was delayed in time.[71]

Biotic recovery [ edit ]

Earlier analyses indicated that life on Earth recovered quickly after the Permian extinctions, but this was mostly in the form of disaster taxa, opportunist organisms such as the hardy Lystrosaurus. Research published in 2006 indicates that the specialized animals that formed complex ecosystems, with high biodiversity, complex food webs and a variety of niches, took much longer to recover. It is thought that this long recovery was due to the successive waves of extinction, which inhibited recovery, and prolonged environmental stress to organisms, which continued into the Early Triassic. Research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, 4 to 6 million years after the extinction;[72] and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until 7014946728000000000♠30 Ma after the P–Tr extinction, i.e. in the late Triassic.[8]

A study published in the journal Science[73] found that during the Great Extinction the oceans' surface temperatures reached 40 °C (104 °F), which explains why recovery took so long: it was simply too hot for life to survive.[74] Of course, not all of the Earth's surface was 40°, and if it was simply too hot for life to survive then nothing would have survived. Perhaps anoxia provides another aspect of what delayed the recovery.[75]

During the early Triassic (4 to 6 million years after the P–Tr extinction), the plant biomass was insufficient to form coal deposits, which implies a limited food mass for herbivores.[20] River patterns in the Karoo changed from meandering to braided, indicating that vegetation there was very sparse for a long time.[76]

Each major segment of the early Triassic ecosystem—plant and animal, marine and terrestrial—was dominated by a small number of genera, which appeared virtually worldwide, for example: the herbivorous therapsid Lystrosaurus (which accounted for about 90% of early Triassic land vertebrates) and the bivalves Claraia, Eumorphotis, Unionites and Promylina. A healthy ecosystem has a much larger number of genera, each living in a few preferred types of habitat.[60][77]

Disaster taxa took advantage of the devastated ecosystems and enjoyed a temporary population boom and increase in their territory. Microconchids are the dominant component of otherwise impoverished Early Triassic encrusting assemblages. For example: Lingula (a brachiopod); stromatolites, which had been confined to marginal environments since the Ordovician; Pleuromeia (a small, weedy plant); Dicroidium (a seed fern).[77][78][79]

Changes in marine ecosystems [ edit ]

Sessile filter feeders like this crinoid were significantly less abundant after the P–Tr extinction.

Prior to the extinction, about two-thirds of marine animals were sessile and attached to the sea floor but, during the Mesozoic, only about half of the marine animals were sessile while the rest were free-living. Analysis of marine fossils from the period indicated a decrease in the abundance of sessile epifaunal suspension feeders such as brachiopods and sea lilies and an increase in more complex mobile species such as snails, sea urchins and crabs.[80]

Before the Permian mass extinction event, both complex and simple marine ecosystems were equally common; after the recovery from the mass extinction, the complex communities outnumbered the simple communities by nearly three to one,[80] and the increase in predation pressure led to the Mesozoic Marine Revolution.

Bivalves were fairly rare before the P–Tr extinction but became numerous and diverse in the Triassic, and one group, the rudist clams, became the Mesozoic's main reef-builders. Some researchers think much of this change happened in the 5 million years between the two major extinction pulses.[81]

Crinoids ("sea lilies") suffered a selective extinction, resulting in a decrease in the variety of their forms. Their ensuing adaptive radiation was brisk, and resulted in forms possessing flexible arms becoming widespread; motility, predominantly a response to predation pressure, also became far more prevalent.[83]

Land vertebrates [ edit ]

Lystrosaurus was by far the most abundant early Triassic land vertebrate. was by far the most abundant early Triassic land vertebrate.

Lystrosaurus, a pig-sized herbivorous dicynodont therapsid, constituted as much as 90% of some earliest Triassic land vertebrate fauna. Smaller carnivorous cynodont therapsids also survived, including the ancestors of mammals. In the Karoo region of southern Africa, the therocephalians Tetracynodon, Moschorhinus and Ictidosuchoides survived, but do not appear to have been abundant in the Triassic.[84]

Archosaurs (which included the ancestors of dinosaurs and crocodilians) were initially rarer than therapsids, but they began to displace therapsids in the mid-Triassic. In the mid to late Triassic, the dinosaurs evolved from one group of archosaurs, and went on to dominate terrestrial ecosystems during the Jurassic and Cretaceous.[85] This "Triassic Takeover" may have contributed to the evolution of mammals by forcing the surviving therapsids and their mammaliform successors to live as small, mainly nocturnal insectivores; nocturnal life probably forced at least the mammaliforms to develop fur and higher metabolic rates,[86] while losing part of the differential color-sensitive retinal receptors reptilians and birds preserved.

Some temnospondyl amphibians made a relatively quick recovery, in spite of nearly becoming extinct. Mastodonsaurus and trematosaurians were the main aquatic and semiaquatic predators during most of the Triassic, some preying on tetrapods and others on fish.[87]

Land vertebrates took an unusually long time to recover from the P–Tr extinction; Palaeontologist Michael Benton estimated the recovery was not complete until 7001300000000000000♠30 million years after the extinction, i.e. not until the Late Triassic, in which dinosaurs, pterosaurs, crocodiles, archosaurs, amphibians, and mammaliforms were abundant and diverse.[6]

Causes [ edit ]

Pinpointing the exact cause or causes of the Permian–Triassic extinction event is difficult, mostly because the catastrophe occurred over 250 million years ago, and since then much of the evidence that would have pointed to the cause has been destroyed or is concealed deep within the Earth under many layers of rock. The sea floor is also completely recycled every 200 million years by the ongoing process of plate tectonics and seafloor spreading, leaving no useful indications beneath the ocean.

Scientists have accumulated a fairly significant amount of evidence for causes, and several mechanisms have been proposed for the extinction event. The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event).

The catastrophic group includes one or more large bolide impact events, increased volcanism, and sudden release of methane from the sea floor, either due to dissociation of methane hydrate deposits or metabolism of organic carbon deposits by methanogenic microbes.

group includes one or more large bolide impact events, increased volcanism, and sudden release of methane from the sea floor, either due to dissociation of methane hydrate deposits or metabolism of organic carbon deposits by methanogenic microbes. The gradual group includes sea level change, increasing anoxia, and increasing aridity.

Any hypothesis about the cause must explain the selectivity of the event, which affected organisms with calcium carbonate skeletons most severely; the long period (4 to 6 million years) before recovery started, and the minimal extent of biological mineralization (despite inorganic carbonates being deposited) once the recovery began.[46]

Impact event [ edit ]

Artist's impression of a major impact event: A collision between Earth and an asteroid a few kilometres in diameter would release as much energy as several million nuclear weapons detonating.

Evidence that an impact event may have caused the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (Cretaceous–Tertiary) has led to speculation that similar impacts may have been the cause of other extinction events, including the P–Tr extinction, and thus to a search for evidence of impacts at the times of other extinctions and for large impact craters of the appropriate age.

Reported evidence for an impact event from the P–Tr boundary level includes rare grains of shocked quartz in Australia and Antarctica;[88][89] fullerenes trapping extraterrestrial noble gases;[90] meteorite fragments in Antarctica;[91] and grains rich in iron, nickel and silicon, which may have been created by an impact.[92] However, the accuracy of most of these claims has been challenged.[93][94][95][96] Quartz from Graphite Peak in Antarctica, for example, once considered "shocked", has been re-examined by optical and transmission electron microscopy. The observed features were concluded to be not due to shock, but rather to plastic deformation, consistent with formation in a tectonic environment such as volcanism.[97]

An impact crater on the sea floor would be evidence of a possible cause of the P–Tr extinction, but such a crater would by now have disappeared. As 70% of the Earth's surface is currently sea, an asteroid or comet fragment is now perhaps more than twice as likely to hit ocean as it is to hit land. However, Earth has no ocean-floor crust more than 200 million years old because the "conveyor belt" process of seafloor spreading and subduction destroys it within that time. Craters produced by very large impacts may be masked by extensive flood basalting from below after the crust is punctured or weakened.[98] Subduction should not, however, be entirely accepted as an explanation of why no firm evidence can be found: as with the K-T event, an ejecta blanket stratum rich in siderophilic elements (such as iridium) would be expected to be seen in formations from the time.

One attraction of large impact theories is that theoretically they could trigger other cause-considered extinction-paralleling phenomena,[clarification needed][99] such as the Siberian Traps eruptions (see below) as being either an impact site[100] or the antipode of an impact site.[99][101] The abruptness of an impact also explains why more species did not rapidly evolve to survive, as would be expected if the Permian-Triassic event had been slower and less global than a meteorite impact.

Possible impact sites [ edit ]

Several possible impact craters have been proposed as the site of an impact causing the P–Tr extinction, including the Bedout structure off the northwest coast of Australia[89] and the hypothesized Wilkes Land crater of East Antarctica.[102][103] In each case, the idea that an impact was responsible has not been proven and has been widely criticized. In the case of Wilkes Land, the age of this sub-ice geophysical feature is very uncertain – it may be later than the Permian–Triassic extinction.

The 40 km (25 mi) Araguainha crater in Brazil has been most recently dated to 254.7 ± 2.5 million years ago, overlapping with estimates for the Permo-Triassic boundary.[104] Much of the local rock was oil shale. The estimated energy released by the Araguainha impact is insufficient to be a direct cause of the global mass extinction, but the colossal local earth tremors would have released huge amounts of oil and gas from the shattered rock. The resulting sudden global warming might have precipitated the Permian–Triassic extinction event.[105]

In May 1992, Michael Rampino published an abstract for the American Geophysical Union noting the discovery of a circular gravity anomaly near the Falkland Islands. He suggested this structure might correspond to an impact crater with a diameter of 250 miles. In August 2017, Rampino, Maximilliano Rocca and Jaime Baez Presser followed up with a paper [106] providing further seismic and magnetic evidence that the structure is an impact crater. Estimates for the age of the structure range up to 250 millions years old. If, in fact, this is an impact crater, it would be substantially larger than the 65 million year old Chicxulub impact crater which is associated with a significant, but smaller extinction event.

Volcanism [ edit ]

The final stages of the Permian had two flood basalt events. A small one, the Emeishan Traps in China, occurred at the same time as the end-Guadalupian extinction pulse, in an area close to the equator at the time.[107][108] The flood basalt eruptions that produced the Siberian Traps constituted one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth and covered over 2,000,000 square kilometres (770,000 sq mi) with lava.[109][110][111] The date of the Siberian Traps eruptions and the extinction event are in good agreement.[22][112]

The Emeishan and Siberian Traps eruptions may have caused dust clouds and acid aerosols, which would have blocked out sunlight and thus disrupted photosynthesis both on land and in the photic zone of the ocean, causing food chains to collapse. The eruptions may also have caused acid rain when the aerosols washed out of the atmosphere. That may have killed land plants and molluscs and planktonic organisms which had calcium carbonate shells. The eruptions would also have emitted carbon dioxide, causing global warming. When all of the dust clouds and aerosols washed out of the atmosphere, the excess carbon dioxide would have remained and the warming would have proceeded without any mitigating effects.[99]

The Siberian Traps had unusual features that made them even more dangerous. Pure flood basalts produce fluid, low-viscosity lava and do not hurl debris into the atmosphere. It appears, however, that 20% of the output of the Siberian Traps eruptions was pyroclastic (consisted of ash and other debris thrown high into the atmosphere), increasing the short-term cooling effect.[113] The basalt lava erupted or intruded into carbonate rocks and into sediments that were in the process of forming large coal beds, both of which would have emitted large amounts of carbon dioxide, leading to stronger global warming after the dust and aerosols settled.[99]

In January 2011, a team, led by Stephen Grasby of the Geological Survey of Canada—Calgary, reported evidence that volcanism caused massive coal beds to ignite, possibly releasing more than 3 trillion tons of carbon. The team found ash deposits in deep rock layers near what is now Buchanan Lake. According to their article, "coal ash dispersed by the explosive Siberian Trap eruption would be expected to have an associated release of toxic elements in impacted water bodies where fly ash slurries developed.... Mafic megascale eruptions are long-lived events that would allow significant build-up of global ash clouds."[114][115] In a statement, Grasby said, "In addition to these volcanoes causing fires through coal, the ash it spewed was highly toxic and was released in the land and water, potentially contributing to the worst extinction event in earth history."[116] In 2013, QY Tang reported the total amounts of important volatiles emitted from the Siberian Traps are 8.5 × 107 Tg CO 2 , 4.4 × 106 Tg CO, 7.0 × 106 Tg H 2 S and 6.8 × 107 Tg SO 2 , the data support a popular notion that the end-Permian mass extinction on the Earth was caused by the emission of enormous amounts of volatiles from the Siberian Traps into the atmosphere.[117]

In 2015, evidence and a timeline indicated the extinction was caused by events in the Large igneous province of the Siberian Traps.[118][119][120][121][122]

Methane hydrate gasification [ edit ]

Scientists have found worldwide evidence of a swift decrease of about 1% in the 13C/12C isotope ratio in carbonate rocks from the end-Permian.[51][123] This is the first, largest, and most rapid of a series of negative and positive excursions (decreases and increases in 13C/12C ratio) that continues until the isotope ratio abruptly stabilised in the middle Triassic, followed soon afterwards by the recovery of calcifying life forms (organisms that use calcium carbonate to build hard parts such as shells).[18]

A variety of factors may have contributed to this drop in the 13C/12C ratio, but most turn out to be insufficient to account fully for the observed amount:[124]

Gases from volcanic eruptions have a 13 C/ 12 C ratio about 0.5 to 0.8% below standard ( δ 13 C about −0.5 to −0.8%), but an assessment made in 1995 concluded that the amount required to produce a reduction of about 1.0% worldwide requires eruptions greater by orders of magnitude than any for which evidence has been found. [125] (However, this analysis addressed only CO 2 produced by the magma itself, not from interactions with carbon bearing sediments, as later proposed.)

C/ C ratio about 0.5 to 0.8% below standard ( C about −0.5 to −0.8%), but an assessment made in 1995 concluded that the amount required to produce a reduction of about 1.0% worldwide requires eruptions greater by orders of magnitude than any for which evidence has been found. (However, this analysis addressed only CO produced by the magma itself, not from interactions with carbon bearing sediments, as later proposed.) A reduction in organic activity would extract 12 C more slowly from the environment and leave more of it to be incorporated into sediments, thus reducing the 13 C/ 12 C ratio. Biochemical processes preferentially use the lighter isotopes since chemical reactions are ultimately driven by electromagnetic forces between atoms and lighter isotopes respond more quickly to these forces, but a study of a smaller drop of 0.3 to 0.4% in 13 C/ 12 C ( δ 13 C −3 to −4 ‰) at the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) concluded that even transferring all the organic carbon (in organisms, soils, and dissolved in the ocean) into sediments would be insufficient: even such a large burial of material rich in 12 C would not have produced the 'smaller' drop in the 13 C/ 12 C ratio of the rocks around the PETM. [125]

C more slowly from the environment and leave more of it to be incorporated into sediments, thus reducing the C/ C ratio. Biochemical processes preferentially use the lighter isotopes since chemical reactions are ultimately driven by electromagnetic forces between atoms and lighter isotopes respond more quickly to these forces, but a study of a smaller drop of 0.3 to 0.4% in C/ C ( C −3 to −4 ‰) at the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) concluded that even transferring all the organic carbon (in organisms, soils, and dissolved in the ocean) into sediments would be insufficient: even such a large burial of material rich in C would not have produced the 'smaller' drop in the C/ C ratio of the rocks around the PETM. Buried sedimentary organic matter has a 13 C/ 12 C ratio 2.0 to 2.5% below normal ( δ 13 C −2.0 to −2.5%). Theoretically, if the sea level fell sharply, shallow marine sediments would be exposed to oxidization. But 6500–8400 gigatons (1 gigaton = 10 9 metric tons) of organic carbon would have to be oxidized and returned to the ocean-atmosphere system within less than a few hundred thousand years to reduce the 13 C/ 12 C ratio by 1.0%, which is not thought to be a realistic possibility. [49] Moreover, sea levels were rising rather than falling at the time of the extinction. [126]

C/ C ratio 2.0 to 2.5% below normal ( C −2.0 to −2.5%). Theoretically, if the sea level fell sharply, shallow marine sediments would be exposed to oxidization. But 6500–8400 gigatons (1 gigaton = 10 metric tons) of organic carbon would have to be oxidized and returned to the ocean-atmosphere system within less than a few hundred thousand years to reduce the C/ C ratio by 1.0%, which is not thought to be a realistic possibility. Moreover, sea levels were rising rather than falling at the time of the extinction. Rather than a sudden decline in sea level, intermittent periods of ocean-bottom hyperoxia and anoxia (high-oxygen and low- or zero-oxygen conditions) may have caused the 13C/12C ratio fluctuations in the Early Triassic;[18] and global anoxia may have been responsible for the end-Permian blip. The continents of the end-Permian and early Triassic were more clustered in the tropics than they are now, and large tropical rivers would have dumped sediment into smaller, partially enclosed ocean basins at low latitudes. Such conditions favor oxic and anoxic episodes; oxic/anoxic conditions would result in a rapid release/burial, respectively, of large amounts of organic carbon, which has a low 13C/12C ratio because biochemical processes use the lighter isotopes more.[127] That or another organic-based reason may have been responsible for both that and a late Proterozoic/Cambrian pattern of fluctuating 13C/12C ratios.[18]

Other hypotheses include mass oceanic poisoning releasing vast amounts of CO 2 [128] and a long-term reorganisation of the global carbon cycle.[124]

Prior to consideration of the inclusion of roasting carbonate sediments by volcanism, the only proposed mechanism sufficient to cause a global 1% reduction in the 13C/12C ratio was the release of methane from methane clathrates.[49] Carbon-cycle models confirm that it would have had enough effect to produce the observed reduction.[124][128] Methane clathrates, also known as methane hydrates, consist of methane molecules trapped in cages of water molecules. The methane, produced by methanogens (microscopic single-celled organisms), has a 13C/12C ratio about 6.0% below normal (δ13C −6.0%). At the right combination of pressure and temperature, it gets trapped in clathrates fairly close to the surface of permafrost and in much larger quantities at continental margins (continental shelves and the deeper seabed close to them). Oceanic methane hydrates are usually found buried in sediments where the seawater is at least 300 m (980 ft) deep. They can be found up to about 2,000 m (6,600 ft) below the sea floor, but usually only about 1,100 m (3,600 ft) below the sea floor.[129]

The area covered by lava from the Siberian Traps eruptions is about twice as large as was originally thought, and most of the additional area was shallow sea at the time. The seabed probably contained methane hydrate deposits, and the lava caused the deposits to dissociate, releasing vast quantities of methane.[130] A vast release of methane might cause significant global warming since methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas. Strong evidence suggests the global temperatures increased by about 6 °C (10.8 °F) near the equator and therefore by more at higher latitudes: a sharp decrease in oxygen isotope ratios (18O/16O);[131] the extinction of Glossopteris flora (Glossopteris and plants that grew in the same areas), which needed a cold climate, with its replacement by floras typical of lower paleolatitudes.[132]

However, the pattern of isotope shifts expected to result from a massive release of methane does not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic. Not only would such a cause require the release of five times as much methane as postulated for the PETM,[18] but would it also have to be reburied at an unrealistically high rate to account for the rapid increases in the 13C/12C ratio (episodes of high positive δ13C) throughout the early Triassic before it was released again several times.[18]

Anoxia [ edit ]

Evidence for widespread ocean anoxia (severe deficiency of oxygen) and euxinia (presence of hydrogen sulfide) is found from the Late Permian to the Early Triassic. Throughout most of the Tethys and Panthalassic Oceans, evidence for anoxia, including fine laminations in sediments, small pyrite framboids, high uranium/thorium ratios, and biomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, appear at the extinction event.[133] However, in some sites, including Meishan, China, and eastern Greenland, evidence for anoxia precedes the extinction.[134][135] Biomarkers for green sulfur bacteria, such as isorenieratane, the diagenetic product of isorenieratene, are widely used as indicators of photic zone euxinia because green sulfur bacteria require both sunlight and hydrogen sulfide to survive. Their abundance in sediments from the P-T boundary indicates hydrogen sulfide was present even in shallow waters.

This spread of toxic, oxygen-depleted water would have been devastating for marine life, producing widespread die-offs. Models of ocean chemistry show that anoxia and euxinia would have been closely associated with hypercapnia (high levels of carbon dioxide).[136] This suggests that poisoning from hydrogen sulfide, anoxia, and hypercapnia acted together as a killing mechanism. Hypercapnia best explains the selectivity of the extinction, but anoxia and euxinia probably contributed to the high mortality of the event. The persistence of anoxia through the Early Triassic may explain the slow recovery of marine life after the extinction. Models also show that anoxic events can cause catastrophic hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere (see below).[137]

The sequence of events leading to anoxic oceans may have been triggered by carbon dioxide emissions from the eruption of the Siberian Traps.[137] In that scenario, warming from the enhanced greenhouse effect would reduce the solubility of oxygen in seawater, causing the concentration of oxygen to decline. Increased weathering of the continents due to warming and the acceleration of the water cycle would increase the riverine flux of phosphate to the ocean. The phosphate would have supported greater primary productivity in the surface oceans. The increase in organic matter production would have caused more organic matter to sink into the deep ocean, where its respiration would further decrease oxygen concentrations. Once anoxia became established, it would have been sustained by a positive feedback loop because deep water anoxia tends to increase the recycling efficiency of phosphate, leading to even higher productivity.

Hydrogen sulfide emissions [ edit ]

A severe anoxic event at the end of the Permian would have allowed sulfate-reducing bacteria to thrive, causing the production of large amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the anoxic ocean. Upwelling of this water may have released massive hydrogen sulfide emissions into the atmosphere and would poison terrestrial plants and animals and severely weaken the ozone layer, exposing much of the life that remained to fatal levels of UV radiation.[137] Indeed, biomarker evidence for anaerobic photosynthesis by Chlorobiaceae (green sulfur bacteria) from the Late-Permian into the Early Triassic indicates that hydrogen sulfide did upwell into shallow waters because these bacteria are restricted to the photic zone and use sulfide as an electron donor.

The hypothesis has the advantage of explaining the mass extinction of plants, which would have added to the methane levels and should otherwise have thrived in an atmosphere with a high level of carbon dioxide. Fossil spores from the end-Permian further support the theory:[citation needed] many show deformities that could have been caused by ultraviolet radiation, which would have been more intense after hydrogen sulfide emissions weakened the ozone layer.

The supercontinent Pangaea [ edit ]

Map of Pangaea showing where today's continents were at the Permian–Triassic boundary

About halfway through the Permian (in the Kungurian age of the Permian's Cisuralian epoch), all the continents joined to form the supercontinent Pangaea, surrounded by the superocean Panthalassa, although blocks that are now parts of Asia did not join the supercontinent until very late in the Permian.[138] The configuration severely decreased the extent of shallow aquatic environments, the most productive part of the seas, and it exposed formerly isolated organisms of the rich continental shelves to competition from invaders. Pangaea's formation would also have altered both oceanic circulation and atmospheric weather patterns, creating seasonal monsoons near the coasts and an arid climate in the vast continental interior.[citation needed]

Marine life suffered very high but not very catastrophic rates of extinction after the formation of Pangaea (see the diagram "Marine genus biodiversity" at the top of this article), almost as high as in some of the "Big Five" mass extinctions. The formation of Pangaea seems not to have caused a significant rise in extinction levels on land, and, in fact, most of the advance of the therapsids and increase in their diversity seems to have occurred in the late Permian, after Pangaea was almost complete. Thus, it seems likely that Pangaea initiated a long period of increased marine extinctions but was not directly responsible for the "Great Dying" and the end of the Permian.

Microbes [ edit ]

A hypothesis published in 2014 posits that a genus of anaerobic methanogenic archaea known as Methanosarcina was responsible for the event.[139] Three lines of evidence suggest that these microbes acquired a new metabolic pathway via gene transfer at about that time, enabling them to efficiently metabolize acetate into methane. That would have led to their exponential reproduction, allowing them to rapidly consume vast deposits of organic carbon that had accumulated in the marine sediment. The result would have been a sharp buildup of methane and carbon dioxide in the Earth's oceans and atmosphere, in a manner that may be consistent with the 13C/12C isotopic record. Massive volcanism facilitated this process by releasing large amounts of nickel, a scarce metal which is a cofactor for an enzymes involved in producing methane.[139] On the other hand, in the canonical Meishan sections, the nickel concentration increases somewhat after the δ13C concentrations have begun to fall.[140]

Combination of causes [ edit ]

Possible causes supported by strong evidence appear to describe a sequence of catastrophes, each worse than the last: the Siberian Traps eruptions were bad enough alone, but because they occurred near coal beds and the continental shelf, they also triggered very large releases of carbon dioxide and methane.[66] The resultant global warming may have caused perhaps the most severe anoxic event in the oceans' history: according to this theory, the oceans became so anoxic, anaerobic sulfur-reducing organisms dominated the chemistry of the oceans and caused massive emissions of toxic hydrogen sulfide.[66]

However, there may be some weak links in this chain of events: the changes in the 13C/12C ratio expected to result from a massive release of methane do not match the patterns seen throughout the early Triassic;[18] and the types of oceanic thermohaline circulation that may have existed at the end of the Permian are not likely to have supported deep-sea anoxia.[141]

See also [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

Further reading [ edit ]

"Smug mocking" is not a short term strategy, but a long-term one. You're sort of missing the forest for the trees: what you see as a tactic for winning, I see as a tactic for social change. Think about it for a second. Why did public health campaigns against smoking work? They worked because the message was *ubiquitous* and *clear*: it's advertising 101, and as a Trump supporter you of all people should recognize that since Trump is a master of this (i.e. advertising himself to people with a clear message, expressing contempt for the "right" people [e.g. the system/status quo], etc). 

The "smugness" and "condescension" are a much broader cultural strategy. Ben Shapiro talks a lot about this, if you're interested in the quasi-intellectual (it's not a scholarly argument, which is why I say 'quasi'; that's not a dig at him at all, or I would have said 'pseudo') argument about this from a conservative angle. We witnessed during this election only a snapshot of a broader cultural strategy to make some things fashionable and other things unfashionable. e.g. You don't want transgender rights? "ugh, so backwards and [insert contemptuous language here]". 

I hate to break it to you, but the strategy seems to be working. Younger generations are much more "politically correct" than older generations, in part because of the social pressure generated by this cultural strategy. Gay marriage is the law of the land, for crying out loud--surely you don't attribute that to anything other than a broad, systematic shift in cultural attitudes (it seems to have gone from "Gay marriage is fundamentally bad for our society" to "Live and let live, but don't tread on my right to still personally believe it's immoral [see cases about catering gay weddings, for example]". That's a powerful shift, and I think it has to do with the fact that society has put pressure on those who opposed Gay marriage by making moral arguments against them (which often feel cruel, condescending, etc). 

And that's the fundamental point, I think. When it's a moral argument, there's almost always "smugness; condescension; shaming; and cruelty". This is because morality is not rational: all morality is based on assumptions whether we want to admit it or not, and so once we start having disagreements about those assumptions, there's nothing left to rationally argue about. This results in a tautological cycle where we use morality to argue morality: 

*("You're a bad human being for believing in this bad morality". "Why does that make me a bad human being?" "Because you believe in that bad morality". "But how do you know it makes me bad?" "Because only bad people can believe in that bad morality". etc. etc. ad nauseum)*.  

The truth is that this tactic is working quite well. Shaming and social manipulation generally is one of the single best ways we have of keeping our fellow human beings in line with things that are otherwise not necessarily objectively provable. Since so much of our lives are governed by these non-objective things, this is a ubiquitous phenomenon. If you don't believe me, try going to one of those young-people religious lectures in a college campus. You know the ones I'm talking about: the bubbly, excited Christians who invite the "young, cool, hip preacher" to encourage people to keep their faith. Go there and try to engage the preacher in a rational discussion: you'll find *immediate* condescension; smugness; and dismissal-through-humor tactics, because that's how the message sinks in. It's a tactic of social shaming and control, and don't make the mistake of believing it does not work. 

What you are seeing from liberals is a socio-cultural tactic of broad, large-scale cultural scale. The backlash to this change is only a symptom of the underlying process.#1# Political Science research has shown, for example, that [increased and severe terrorist attacks can be a sign of weakening rather than strengthening]#1#(http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2016/05/19/isis-attacks-abroad-sign-weakness/). Harsh backlash should be viewed very carefully; I contend that this harsh backlash of Trump is masking an underlying phenomenon, which is that liberals have been "winning" the culture games for the past several decades. Whether this trend continues is anyone's guess, but you should not think of these otherwise manipulative social tactics you're decrying are part of a short-term electoral strategy. Rather, they are part of a much larger, longer-scale cultural strategy--and make no mistake about it, they are working exactly as they are supposed to. 



http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2016/05/19/isis-attacks-abroad-sign-weakness/
ISIS INCREASED ATTACKS ABROAD ARE A SIGN OF WEAKNESS
ISIS Increased Attacks Abroad are a Sign of Weakness

On March 22, terror struck Brussels with a twin blast at Zaventem Airport and the Maelbeek metro station, claiming the lives of 32 people and injuring over 300. The attacks claimed by ISIS came only a few days after a suicide bombing killed five and injured 36 in Istanbul—the fourth suicide bombing in Turkey in 2016.

The latest bombings have reheated the debate within the EU about tighter border controls—possibly foreshadowing the eventual breakdown of the Schengen Agreement. In addition, the attacks have hardened Europe’s determination to combat terrorism at home, with increased monitoring of ISIS fighters returning from the Middle East and improved intelligence sharing between EU members, and abroad, whether through ramping up aircraft deployments in the coalition against the Islamic State or by supplying weapons to local actors.

#1#Experts have argued that ISIS’s increased activity abroad is a sign of weakness rather than strength.#1# As the so-called caliphate begins to crumble—ISIS is thought to have lost around 20% of its territory in Syria and over 40% in Iraq since its peak expansion in August 2014—the group is allocating efforts and resources toward large-scale terrorist attacks abroad in order to influence the strategic calculations of the coalition member countries at a reduced cost.

Since ISIS’s “winner’s message” of “remaining and expanding” sounds increasingly hollow, this tactical shift is one way to catch global headlines and retain its legitimacy and ability to recruit.

Although the increased operational tempo of terrorist attacks is the manifestation of the group’s faltering, the ISIS underlying ideology is not expected to wither away anytime soon. Jonathan Schanzer, a former terrorism finance analyst at the Treasury Department, argues that “defeating the formal military presence of a terrorist group will not significantly mitigate the threat of lone wolf or small independent cells that are based in the West.”

In its heartland, ISIS is definitely in retreat. According to Pentagon officials, U.S. airstrikes have killed over 25,000 Islamic State fighters and deprived the group of millions of dollars in revenue. Financially debilitated, it has halved salaries of its civil servants and is releasing hostages for sums as low as $500.

Indeed, ISIS has not scored a significant victory since taking Palmyra in May 2015. The ancient city was recaptured by the Syrian regime, supported by Russian airstrikes, on March 27, 2016, reducing ISIS’s ability to threaten Syria’s coastal regions.

In Iraq, after retaking Tikrit in March 2015 and Ramadi in December, the government in Baghdad declared on March 24 the beginning of operations to retake Mosul. The offensive to regain Iraq’s second largest city will not be easy.

After some initial success reclaiming nearby villages, progress in the military campaign was stalled. More sober prognostics have now replaced the once optimistic talks of pushing ISIS out of Mosul by the end of the year—military analysts estimate that there is little prospect of an assault on the city before 2017.

With about 10,000 fighters and almost two years to erect a multilayered defense, a force of at least 40,000 would be needed to overcome the group, according to estimates. Indeed, the current under-strength Iraqi division supported by U.S. military advisers looks woefully inadequate for the task.

Moreover, because of ethno-religious tensions, Kurdish Peshmerga seem uninterested in helping take a city that would never be part of an independent Kurdistan while Shi‘a-dominated militias—instrumental in retaking Tikrit—will probably be kept away for fears of sectarian reprisals following the conquest of the Sunni-majority city.

An important factor in the battle for Mosul is America’s involvement. The Pentagon wants to go beyond air strikes and the current deployment of military advisers and introduce additional special forces. However, this goes against Obama’s “no boots on the ground” pledge—although an increasingly tenuous promise, it rules out the deployment on the scale necessary to retake Mosul.

After attempting to train local forces—leading to the disastrous $500 million train-and-equip program for Syrian moderates that yielded little to no results—and bombing oil production facilities under Operation Tidal Wave II, the U.S. is now focusing on a leadership decapitation campaign, using special forces on the ground. In March, American forces killed Haji Iman, ISIS’s second-in-command, as well as Abu Omar al-Shishanim, the group’s “war minister.”

Secretary of Defense Ash Carter explained current U.S. strategy: “we are systematically eliminating ISIL’s cabinet,” in order to “hamper the ability for them to conduct operations inside and outside of Iraq and Syria.” Although the leadership is capable of regenerating itself and operating on the ground, taking out leaders reduces the group’s ability to conduct terrorist attacks abroad as they require a more sophisticated network and superior coordination.

Talks of a new training program—allegedly more narrowly focused—and Obama’s decision to add 250 military personnel to the 50 already on the ground in Syria are the latest development in the U.S. effort to capitalize on the momentum in the campaign against the Islamic State. It remains to be seen whether or not these new policies achieve the desired outcome.

Recommended Readings

Max Fisher, “The Brussels attack is Europe’s new reality,” Vox (Mar. 22, 2016).

Eric Schmitt and Alissa J. Rubin “ISIS Spreading in Europe, U.S. Intelligence Chief Warns,”

The New York Times (Apr. 25, 2016).

“The last battle,” The Economist (Apr. 16, 2016).

Premise 1: Trump has certainly said racist, sexist things, but his actions don't really suggest he is worse than the average person. I think we are all guilty of making tasteless jokes from time to time, but that doesn't mean we are racists. Trump does not have the filter that polished politicians do, so he comes off as brash and mean.

Premise 2 & 3: If you accept my first premise, then they are not voting for a bigot.

Either way, Robert Byrd was a US senator and former head of the KKK and #1#"Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton once heaped praise for late Klan leader Sen. Robert Byrd."#1# (http://www.snopes.com/clinton-byrd-photo-klan/), so by your premises, she is also a racist/bigot and thus so are her supporters.




http://www.snopes.com/clinton-byrd-photo-klan/
HILLARY CLINTON KISSED BY FORMER KLAN MEMBER
CLAIM

A photograph shows Hillary Clinton with former Ku Klux Klan member Robert Byrd.

TRUE

RATING

TRUE

ORIGIN

Shortly after Donald Trump declined to condemn David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan during an interview on CNN’s “State Of The Union” on 28 February 2016 (the Republican presidential candidate would later blame it on a faulty earpiece) a photograph purportedly showing Hillary Clinton with former Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, a former Ku Klux Klan member, was widely circulated online:

The photograph was posted by numerous web sites along with articles arguing that the news media were being hypocritical in their coverage of Trump’s purported connections to a white supremacist hate group, while making no mention of Hillary Clinton. The Daily Caller also published a video of Clinton praising Byrd’s service in Congress:

Despite mounting criticism for Donald Trump’s failure to disavow former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke’s support, #1#Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton once heaped praise for late Klan leader Sen. Robert Byrd#1#. In a video uploaded to the State Department’s official YouTube page on June 28, 2010, Clinton commemorated late Sen. Byrd by saying, “Today our country has lost a true American original, my friend and mentor Robert C. Byrd.

This photograph and video are undeniably genuine: The photograph was taken in July 2004, and the video of Clinton was filmed on 28 June 2010, shortly after Byrd’s death.

It’s also true that Robert Byrd was a member of the Ku Klux Klan in the 1940s and helped establish the hate group’s chapter in Sophia, West Virginia. However, in 1952 Byrd avowed that “After about a year, I became disinterested [in the KKK], quit paying my dues, and dropped my membership in the organization,” and throughout his long political career (he served for 57 years in the United States Congress) he repeatedly apologized for his involvement with the KKK:

“I know now I was wrong. Intolerance had no place in America. I apologized a thousand times … and I don’t mind apologizing over and over again. I can’t erase what happened.”

In 2010, even the NAACP released a statement honoring Senator Byrd and mourning his passing:

The NAACP is saddened by the passing of United States Senator Robert Byrd. Byrd, the longest serving member of congress was first elected to the U.S. House from [West Virginia] in 1952 and was elected Senator in 1958. Byrd passed away this morning at the age of 92. “Senator Byrd reflects the transformative power of this nation,” stated NAACP President and CEO Benjamin Todd Jealous. “Senator Byrd went from being an active member of the KKK to a being a stalwart supporter of the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act and many other pieces of seminal legislation that advanced the civil rights and liberties of our country. “Senator Byrd came to consistently support the NAACP civil rights agenda, doing well on the NAACP Annual Civil Rights Report Card. He stood with us on many issues of crucial importance to our members from the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, the historic health care legislation of 2010 and his support for the Hate Crimes Prevention legislation,” stated Hilary O. Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy. “Senator Byrd was a master of the Senate Rules, and helped strategize passage of legislation that helped millions of Americans. He will be sorely missed.”

Although this image was used to criticize the media for ignoring Hillary Clinton’s connection to former KKK member Robert Byrd while simultaneously playing up Donald Trump’s comments regarding former Klan member David Duke, several factors made the latter much more newsworthy in early 2016

First of all, Trump declined to condemn Duke and the Ku Klux Klan in February 2016, making the story current and newsworthy, whilephotograph of Hillary Clinton was taken more than a decade ago. The lack of current coverage isn’t because the print media are ignoring the association, but because the photograph is a several-year-old story.

Second, while David Duke is no longer a member of the Ku Klux Klan, he is still an active member of another white supremacist organization, NAAWP: the National Association for the Advancement of White People. Duke, a prominent Holocaust denier (although he describes himself as a “Holocaust exposer“), also has a more-than-passing interest in politics: the former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives has run for the U.S. Senate, governor of Louisiana, and President of the United States. Duke has spent his life founding and supporting various white nationalist and white supremacist groups, while Byrd, by contrast, spent the majority of his life publicly disavowing and repeatedly apologizing for hisearly KKK affiliation.

After the civil rights movement, not much changed in popular culture and livingroom culture in the US WRT racism and equal rights. I lot of the change came from the fact that it became publicly shameful to be overtly racist in normal society.

[Read this explanation of #1#the effect that superman had on KKK membership#1#](http://mentalfloss.com/article/23157/how-superman-defeated-ku-klux-klan). Shame works, and it has worked in the past. It didn't work now, but it's partly because Trump was wrapped up in a lot of different movements at once. 

It's worked in the past, it has worked for the gay rights movement, it will work in future situations.



http://mentalfloss.com/article/23157/how-superman-defeated-ku-klux-klan
HOW SUPERMAN DEFEATED THE KU KLUX KLAN
In the 1940s, The Adventures of Superman was a radio sensation. Kids across the country huddled around their sets as the Man of Steel leapt off the page and over the airwaves. Although Superman had been fighting crime in print since 1938, the weekly audio episodes fleshed out his storyline even further. It was on the radio that Superman first faced kryptonite, met Daily Planet reporter Jimmy Olsen, and became associated with "truth, justice, and the American way." So, it's no wonder that when a young writer and activist named Stetson Kennedy decided to expose the secrets of the Ku Klux Klan, he looked to a certain superhero for inspiration.

In the post-World War II era, the Klan experienced a huge resurgence. Its membership was skyrocketing, and its political influence was increasing, so Kennedy went undercover to infiltrate the group. By regularly attending meetings, he became privy to the organization's secrets. But when he took the information to local authorities, they had little interest in using it. The Klan had become so powerful and intimidating that police were hesitant to build a case against them.

MORE FROM MENTAL FLOSS STUDIOS

Struggling to make use of his findings, Kennedy approached the writers of the Superman radio serial. It was perfect timing. With the war over and the Nazis no longer a threat, the producers were looking for a new villain for Superman to fight. The KKK was a great fit for the role.

In a 16-episode series titled "Clan of the Fiery Cross," the writers pitted the Man of Steel against the men in white hoods.

#1#As the storyline progressed, the shows exposed many of the KKK's most guarded secrets. By revealing everything from code words to rituals, the program completely stripped the Klan of its mystique. Within two weeks of the broadcast, KKK recruitment was down to zero. And by 1948, people were showing up to Klan rallies just to mock them.#1#

This story originally appeared in a 2008 issue of mental_floss magazine.
Yes, but that's a completely different proposal than what the OP is suggesting. Also, if you are going to proportionality then you might as well call the way and follow the #1#[National Popular Vote Interstate Compact]#1#(https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact) and give each state's electoral votes to the winner of the popular vote.



https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact
NATIONAL POPULAR VOTE INTERSTATE COMPACT
Mechanism Edit

Proposed in the form of an interstate compact, the agreement would go into effect among the participating states in the compact only after they collectively represent an absolute majority of votes (currently at least 270) in the Electoral College. In the next presidential election after adoption by the requisite number of states, #1#the participating states would award all of their electoral votes to presidential electors associated with the candidate who wins the overall popular vote in the 50 states and the District of Columbia#1#. As a result, the winner of the national popular vote would always win the presidency by always securing a majority of votes in the Electoral College. Until the compact's conditions are met, all states award electoral votes in their current manner. The compact would modify the way participating states implement Article II, Section 1, Clause 2 of the U.S. Constitution, which requires each state legislature to define a method to appoint its electors to vote in the Electoral College (although systems that violate the 14th Amendment, which mandates equal protection of law and prohibits racial discrimination, would be prohibited). The Constitution does not mandate any particular legislative scheme for selecting electors, and instead vests state legislatures with the exclusive power to choose how to allocate its own electors.[3][4] States have chosen various methods of allocation over the years, with regular changes in the nation's early decades. Today, all but two states (Maine and Nebraska) award all their electoral votes to the candidate with the most votes statewide.

Motivation behind the compact Edit

Debate Edit

History Edit

Bills Edit

See also Edit

So clearly, we are living in a time where we feel justified to hate on "illegals". The solution that the president-elect has been talking about for years is a giant wall on the US southern border. I see this solution as such:

I have a giant block of cheese sitting in the middle of my house. Mice will not stop getting into my house and eating this block of cheese (I don't think mice are really into cheese like this, but I can't think of a better analogy at the moment). So my idea is to leave the block of cheese and try catching the mice and releasing them back outside my house. Of course, they know the cheese is there and they keep coming for the cheese. 

The problem with undocumented workers coming into the country to take jobs is that there is someone offering these jobs to undocumented workers. Construction crews, agriculture, etc., are all industries where the leaders can save a whole lot of money by having undocumented workers, pay them salaries below minimum wage, offer no benefits, and threaten to have them deported. 

What I think we should do is go after these people. If instead of a giant wall and an insane increase in a task force, it would be a lot cheaper to have a regulative authority that regularly audits and investigates companies that engage in this practice. And companies that are found engaging in it should face severe punishment....I'm talking massive fines for first offense and revoking of business licenses in other offenses, potentially increasing to the point of confiscating the business and property. 

I assume that there is already a bit of a penalty in place for these employers, but the risk of getting caught must still be cheaper than the cost of only hiring American workers at decent wages. 

EDIT: Okay everyone, I object to using the word illegal to describe an entire group of people. #1#It's insensitive, offensive, and in the context, racist.#1# http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/

EDIT 2: Let me clarify my personal views. I think this country needs MORE immigration, not less. I think we need open borders and that we're moving towards globalization and overall, we need to move away from the idea of American superiority. I truly don't believe that illegal immigration is a problem severe enough to warrant building a massive wall, though I do concede that it may be easier to try to keep people out than to try to regulate business. My main issue is the republican talking point, and one of the cornerstones of the president-elect's campaign that blames undocumented workers for taking American jobs and making the country less safe. And I do believe that even though it's not an easy thing to do, we should be working more to fight the people that wish to exploit desperate people than the people willing to do anything to improve the lives of their family.
_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/
U.S. IMMIGRATION: WHY CALLING UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE 'ILLEGAL' IS WRONG
#1#It's inflammatory, imprecise and, most of all, inaccurate.#1# So why does everyone — from Chuck Schumer to Mitt Romney — use it?

FREDERIC J. BROWN / AFP / Getty Images People wait in line to enter the office of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles on the first day of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Aug. 15, 2012

Related Under Fire on Immigration, Romney Vows Reasonable Solution CNN

What part of “illegal” don’t you understand?

Add that to the list of questions I am repeatedly asked since publicly disclosing my undocumented-immigrant status in the summer of 2011. Calling undocumented people “illegal immigrants” — or worse, “illegal aliens,” as Mitt Romney did in front of a largely Latino audience last week — has become such standard practice for politicians and the media, from Bill O’Reilly to the New York Times, that people of all political persuasions do not think twice about doing it too.

(MORE: For Romney, Fundraising Comes First)

But describing an immigrant as illegal is legally inaccurate. Being in the U.S. without proper documents is a civil offense, not a criminal one. (Underscoring this reality, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority opinion on SB 1070, Arizona’s controversial immigration law: “As a general rule, it is not a crime for a movable alien to remain in the United States.”) In a country that believes in due process of the law, calling an immigrant illegal is akin to calling a defendant awaiting trial a criminal. The term illegal is also imprecise. For many undocumented people — there are 11 million in the U.S. and most have immediate family members who are American citizens, either by birth or naturalization — their immigration status is fluid and, depending on individual circumstances, can be adjusted.

When journalists, who are supposed to seek neutrality and fairness, use the term, they are politicizing an already political issue. (How can using illegal immigrant be considered neutral, for example, when Republican strategist Frank Luntz encouraged using the term in a 2005 memo to tie undocumented people with criminality?) And the term dehumanizes and marginalizes the people it seeks to describe. Think of it this way: In what other contexts do we call someone illegal? If someone is driving a car at 14, we say “underage driver,” not “illegal driver.” If someone is driving under the influence, we call them a “drunk driver,” not an “illegal driver.” Put another way: How would you feel if you — or your family members or friends — were referred to as illegal?

(MORE: How Obama’s New Policy Affects Undocumented Youth — and Me)

Each newsroom abides by its own stylebook — how it defines and uses words and phrases. In the past few years, a small handful of news organizations have ceased using the term illegal immigrant in favor of undocumented immigrant. The Miami Herald, for example, began doing so as early as 2003 and instituted it paperwide a few years later. The Huffington Post — one the largest general news sources in the U.S. — followed suit in 2008. Two years later, the San Antonio Express-News amended its policy. That was around the same time a campaign called Drop the I-Word was launched, targeting leading news organizations like the Associated Press, whose influential stylebook still stands by illegal immigrant.

(MORE: Our National Immigration Policy: Still Clear as Mud)

In an increasingly diverse society in which undocumented immigrants are integrated in all walks of life, language belongs to the people whose stories are being told, whose distinct realities need to be accurately and fairly represented to the benefit of everyone. To be an undocumented person in the U.S., after all, is to live a life dictated by getting the proper documents. Immigration in the U.S. is more than a question of legality — it’s about history, about foreign policy, about economy in a globalized and interconnected world.

(MORE: TIME’s Cover Story “Not Legal, Not Leaving”)

I was born in the Philippines, a former American territory, and moved to the U.S. when I was 12. I found out that I was undocumented — that I didn’t have the proper documents — after trying to get a driver’s license at age 16. A year later, my high school sophomore-English teacher said I was asking too many questions and “should try this thing called journalism.” I was hooked, partly because seeing my byline, my name on a piece of paper, validated my existence in a way my fake green card and fake passport that my grandfather bought to smuggle me into America did not. When I got older, my grandfather’s lies became my lies. For more than a decade, I lied about my immigration status so I could get jobs, pay taxes and provide for myself and my family. But the lies stopped — they had to. Like countless other undocumented people, particularly young ones who’ve grown up in the U.S. and call this country our home, I outed myself to be seen as a human being who is more than my immigration status.

Don’t all human beings deserve to be reported on fairly and accurately?

(PHOTOS: Harvesting Labor Rights: Chavez’s UFW At 50)

> http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/

#1#This was an exit poll in the primaries, where middle to upper income people were more likely to vote. #1#

> Trump IS the wealthy businessman people are worried are influencing politics!

In the general election, Trump won 52% of the $25,000 to $30,000 a year votes, beating Clinton by nine points. That's a gigantic margin. If people saw him as a threat to their economic situation, these margins would not be so wide.



http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-mythology-of-trumps-working-class-support/
THE MYTHOLOGY OF TRUMP’S ‘WORKING CLASS’ SUPPORT
It’s been extremely common for news accounts to portray Donald Trump’s candidacy as a “working-class” rebellion against Republican elites. There are elements of truth in this perspective: Republican voters, especially Trump supporters, are unhappy about the direction of the economy. Trump voters have lower incomes than supporters of John Kasich or Marco Rubio. And things have gone so badly for the Republican “establishment” that the party may be facing an existential crisis.

But the definition of “working class” and similar terms is fuzzy, and narratives like these risk obscuring an important and perhaps counterintuitive fact about Trump’s voters: As compared with most Americans, Trump’s voters are better off. The median household income of a Trump voter so far in the primaries is about $72,000, based on estimates derived from exit polls and Census Bureau data. That’s lower than the $91,000 median for Kasich voters. But it’s well above the national median household income of about $56,000. It’s also higher than the median income for Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders supporters, which is around $61,000 for both.

These figures, as I mentioned, are derived from exit polls, which so far have been conducted in 23 primary states. #1#The exit polls have asked voters to describe their 2015 family income by using one of five broad categories, ranging from “under $30,000” to “$200,000 or more.”#1# It’s fairly straightforward to interpolate a median income for voters of each candidate from this data; for instance, we can infer that the median Clinton voter in Wisconsin made about $63,000. You can find my estimates for each candidate in each state in the following table, along with each state’s overall household median income in 2015.

MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME STATE STATEWIDE* CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP Maryland $79k $92k $77k $92k $119k $95k New Hampshire 76 84 69 77 99 78 Connecticut 73 102 75 101 119 99 Virginia 69 83 71 79 114 82 Massachusetts 65 87 68 84 107 93 Vermont 63 80 61 62 85 70 Wisconsin 60 63 63 80 76 69 Missouri 59 58 53 64 80 62 Illinois 57 61 66 74 99 79 Pennsylvania 57 59 57 64 83 71 New York 56 64 65 56 83 85 Texas 56 63 62 82 98 78 Michigan 54 56 51 62 75 61 Georgia 51 59 55 88 89 70 Ohio 51 59 62 62 92 64 Oklahoma 49 57 54 71 102 69 Florida 48 51 50 64 87 70 North Carolina 48 59 56 74 92 62 Arkansas 47 47 49 67 67 63 South Carolina 47 39 47 64 108 72 Tennessee 45 61 52 73 82 64 Alabama 44 44 53 63 75 58 Mississippi 37 38 39 64 97 62 All states** 56 61 61 73 91 72 Trump voters, like others in the GOP, have relatively high incomes * The state median includes all households, not just those that voted in the primaries.

** The aggregate estimate is weighted based on the number of votes a candidate received in each state. Source: Edison Research Exit Polls, Census bureau

Trump voters’ median income exceeded the overall statewide median in all 23 states, sometimes narrowly (as in New Hampshire or Missouri) but sometimes substantially. In Florida, for instance, the median household income for Trump voters was about $70,000, compared with $48,000 for the state as a whole. The differences are usually larger in states with substantial non-white populations, as black and Hispanic voters are overwhelmingly Democratic and tend to have lower incomes. In South Carolina, for example, the median Trump supporter had a household income of $72,000, while the median for Clinton supporters was $39,000.

Ted Cruz voters have a similar median income to Trump supporters — about $73,000. Kasich’s supporters have a very high median income, $91,000, and it has exceeded $100,000 in several states. Rubio’s voters, not displayed in the table above, followed a similar pattern to Kasich voters, with a median income of $88,000.

Many of the differences reflect that Republican voters are wealthier overall than Democratic ones, and also that wealthier Americans are more likely to turn out to vote, especially in the primaries. However, while Republican turnout has considerably increased overall from four years ago, there’s no sign of a particularly heavy turnout among “working-class” or lower-income Republicans. On average in states where exit polls were conducted both this year and in the Republican campaign four years ago, 29 percent of GOP voters have had household incomes below $50,000 this year, compared with 31 percent in 2012.

STATE 2012 2016 Alabama 37% 41% Florida 34 33 Georgia 24 26 Illinois 28 23 Maryland 19 19 Massachusetts 24 20 Michigan 35 37 Mississippi 36 37 New Hampshire 26 27 Ohio 32 30 Oklahoma 41 30 South Carolina 36 27 Tennessee 35 33 Vermont 37 30 Virginia 25 19 Wisconsin 32 28 Average 31 29 Share of Republican electorate with household income below $50,000 Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

The median income for Clinton and Sanders voters — $61,000 for each candidate — is generally much closer to the overall median income in each state. But even Democratic turnout tends to skew slightly toward a wealthier electorate, somewhat validating Sanders’s claim that “poor people don’t vote.” I estimate that 27 percent of American households had incomes under $30,000 last year. By comparison, 20 percent of Clinton voters did, as did 18 percent of Sanders supporters. (Those figures imply Clinton might have a bigger edge on Sanders if more poor people voted, although it would depend on whether they were black, white or Hispanic.) Both Democratic candidates do better than the Republicans in this category, however. Only 12 percent of Trump voters have incomes below $30,000; when you also consider that Clinton has more votes than Trump overall, that means about twice as many low-income voters have cast a ballot for Clinton than for Trump so far this year.

SHARE OF VOTERS HOUSEHOLD INCOME SHARE OF ALL U.S. H’HOLDS CLINTON SANDERS CRUZ KASICH TRUMP <$30,000 27% 20% 18% 11% 9% 12% $30,000-$49,999 18 21 23 17 14 20 $50,000-$99,999 29 30 34 41 31 34 $100,000-$199,999 20 22 21 25 32 25 ≥$200,000 6 7 5 6 14 9 Low-income voters are underrepresented, especially in the GOP Source: EDISON RESEARCH EXIT POLLS

Class in America is a complicated concept, and it may be that Trump supporters see themselves as having been left behind in other respects. Since almost all of Trump’s voters so far in the primaries have been non-Hispanic whites, we can ask whether they make lower incomes than other white Americans, for instance. The answer is “no.” The median household income for non-Hispanic whites is about $62,000, still a fair bit lower than the $72,000 median for Trump voters.

Likewise, although about 44 percent of Trump supporters have college degrees, according to exit polls — lower than the 50 percent for Cruz supporters or 64 percent for Kasich supporters — that’s still higher than the 33 percent of non-Hispanic white adults, or the 29 percent of American adults overall, who have at least a bachelor’s degree.

This is not to say that Trump voters are happy about the condition of the economy. Substantial majorities of Republicans in every state so far have said they’re “very worried” about the condition of the U.S. economy, according to exit polls, and these voters have been more likely to vote for Trump. But that anxiety doesn’t necessarily reflect their personal economic circumstances, which for many Trump voters, at least in a relative sense, are reasonably good.

Check out our live coverage of the Indiana primary elections.

Interesting you say that since further in the thread, I already awarded a delta.

#1#The term "illegals" being used to define a group of people is offensive and since it is used (definitely in this context) to describe a particular racial group, it's racist. #1#

http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/

Language matters.



http://ideas.time.com/2012/09/21/immigration-debate-the-problem-with-the-word-illegal/
U.S. IMMIGRATION: WHY CALLING UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE 'ILLEGAL' IS WRONG
#1#It's inflammatory, imprecise and, most of all, inaccurate.#1# So why does everyone — from Chuck Schumer to Mitt Romney — use it?

FREDERIC J. BROWN / AFP / Getty Images People wait in line to enter the office of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles on the first day of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Aug. 15, 2012

Related Under Fire on Immigration, Romney Vows Reasonable Solution CNN

What part of “illegal” don’t you understand?

Add that to the list of questions I am repeatedly asked since publicly disclosing my undocumented-immigrant status in the summer of 2011. Calling undocumented people “illegal immigrants” — or worse, “illegal aliens,” as Mitt Romney did in front of a largely Latino audience last week — has become such standard practice for politicians and the media, from Bill O’Reilly to the New York Times, that people of all political persuasions do not think twice about doing it too.

(MORE: For Romney, Fundraising Comes First)

But describing an immigrant as illegal is legally inaccurate. Being in the U.S. without proper documents is a civil offense, not a criminal one. (Underscoring this reality, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority opinion on SB 1070, Arizona’s controversial immigration law: “As a general rule, it is not a crime for a movable alien to remain in the United States.”) In a country that believes in due process of the law, calling an immigrant illegal is akin to calling a defendant awaiting trial a criminal. The term illegal is also imprecise. For many undocumented people — there are 11 million in the U.S. and most have immediate family members who are American citizens, either by birth or naturalization — their immigration status is fluid and, depending on individual circumstances, can be adjusted.

When journalists, who are supposed to seek neutrality and fairness, use the term, they are politicizing an already political issue. (How can using illegal immigrant be considered neutral, for example, when Republican strategist Frank Luntz encouraged using the term in a 2005 memo to tie undocumented people with criminality?) And the term dehumanizes and marginalizes the people it seeks to describe. Think of it this way: In what other contexts do we call someone illegal? If someone is driving a car at 14, we say “underage driver,” not “illegal driver.” If someone is driving under the influence, we call them a “drunk driver,” not an “illegal driver.” Put another way: How would you feel if you — or your family members or friends — were referred to as illegal?

(MORE: How Obama’s New Policy Affects Undocumented Youth — and Me)

Each newsroom abides by its own stylebook — how it defines and uses words and phrases. In the past few years, a small handful of news organizations have ceased using the term illegal immigrant in favor of undocumented immigrant. The Miami Herald, for example, began doing so as early as 2003 and instituted it paperwide a few years later. The Huffington Post — one the largest general news sources in the U.S. — followed suit in 2008. Two years later, the San Antonio Express-News amended its policy. That was around the same time a campaign called Drop the I-Word was launched, targeting leading news organizations like the Associated Press, whose influential stylebook still stands by illegal immigrant.

(MORE: Our National Immigration Policy: Still Clear as Mud)

In an increasingly diverse society in which undocumented immigrants are integrated in all walks of life, language belongs to the people whose stories are being told, whose distinct realities need to be accurately and fairly represented to the benefit of everyone. To be an undocumented person in the U.S., after all, is to live a life dictated by getting the proper documents. Immigration in the U.S. is more than a question of legality — it’s about history, about foreign policy, about economy in a globalized and interconnected world.

(MORE: TIME’s Cover Story “Not Legal, Not Leaving”)

I was born in the Philippines, a former American territory, and moved to the U.S. when I was 12. I found out that I was undocumented — that I didn’t have the proper documents — after trying to get a driver’s license at age 16. A year later, my high school sophomore-English teacher said I was asking too many questions and “should try this thing called journalism.” I was hooked, partly because seeing my byline, my name on a piece of paper, validated my existence in a way my fake green card and fake passport that my grandfather bought to smuggle me into America did not. When I got older, my grandfather’s lies became my lies. For more than a decade, I lied about my immigration status so I could get jobs, pay taxes and provide for myself and my family. But the lies stopped — they had to. Like countless other undocumented people, particularly young ones who’ve grown up in the U.S. and call this country our home, I outed myself to be seen as a human being who is more than my immigration status.

Don’t all human beings deserve to be reported on fairly and accurately?

(PHOTOS: Harvesting Labor Rights: Chavez’s UFW At 50)

Arguably, we are already undergoing a mass  extinction event. #1#If you look at the short timescale human civilization has existed from a geological perspective, thousands of species have already gone extinct or been driven out of their principle ranges in what is basically an instant.#1# This is known as the holocene extinction

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction

Now, it seems you are holding the human species itself is going to go extinct and quite possible most life on earth. I find this to be pretty unlikely. Humans are, bar none, the most adaptable vertebrates to ever exist. Some of us routinely live in areas that we have no business living in such as in Antarctica or thousands of feet below the arctic ice sheets. Even the most extreme projections of climate change that project the earth being reduced to Mars would be unlikely to happen quickly enough for human to not be able to find an engineering solution to keep (some of) ourselves and probably a significant portion of the genetic diversity on the planet around. Society as we know it might collapse in this extreme example, but the future of human civilization or the hope of a renewed ecological system on the planet won't necessarily be gone. 

That being said, I don't think the Earth will ever get that bad. As it stands, even with what may seem to be advances that are "too slow" to many people, humans civilization is actually quite concerned about the environment, and have taken enormous steps in the past 20 years in terms of advancing technologies that would enable a sustainable society. Even people who completely deny climate change don't generally have a huge problem with building sustainable energy systems or societal practices especially when they become economically competitive with fossil fuels. I have seen many people myself whose views on climate change and renewable energy and practices have warmed over the past decade. 

And in the case of a nuclear war, I don't think a large scale nuclear conflict would actually lead to extinction of life or even even human civilization. Already, many thousands of nukes have been detonated. Only a couple thousand more could be added to that list in terms of a total nuclear war. Most of those would be airbursted over cities which would significantly limits fallout effects (and maximize destruction). The overall amount of debris would be much, much less than say the K-T extinction event and maybe comparable to certain volcanic explosions, all of which life has managed to persevere through. It would be quite bad, and may render certain areas unlivable at its worst, but probably won't threaten overall life on earth.

Edit: Also, it seems you are concerned about our food base just dying off. That is certainly a danger, but I think it is very likely that humans develop a reliable way of turning inorganic carbon/water into food at a large scale within a hundred years and probably less. All the chemistry is there to make that possible. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction
HOLOCENE EXTINCTION
#1#The Holocene extinction, otherwise referred to as the Sixth extinction or Anthropocene extinction, is the ongoing extinction event of species during the present Holocene epoch, mainly due to human activity.#1#[1] The large number of extinctions spans numerous families of plants and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods. With widespread degradation of highly biodiverse habitats such as coral reefs and rainforest, as well as other areas, the vast majority of these extinctions is thought to be undocumented. The current rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than natural background rates.

The Holocene extinction includes the disappearance of large land animals known as megafauna, starting at the end of the last Ice Age. Megafauna outside of the African continent, which did not evolve alongside humans, proved highly sensitive to the introduction of new predation, and many died out shortly after early humans began spreading and hunting across the Earth (additionally, many African species have also gone extinct in the Holocene). These extinctions, occurring near the Pleistocene–Holocene boundary, are sometimes referred to as the Quaternary extinction event.

The arrival of humans on different continents coincides with megafaunal extinction. The most popular theory is that human overhunting of species added to existing stress conditions. Although there is debate regarding how much human predation affected their decline, certain population declines have been directly correlated with human activity, such as the extinction events of New Zealand and Hawaii. Aside from humans, climate change may have been a driving factor in the megafaunal extinctions, especially at the end of the Pleistocene.

The ecology of humanity has been noted as being that of an unprecedented "global superpredator" that regularly preys on the adults of other apex predators and has worldwide effects on food webs. Extinctions of species have occurred on every land mass and ocean, with many famous examples within Africa, Asia, Europe, Australia, North and South America, and on smaller islands. Overall, the Holocene extinction can be characterized by the human impact on the environment. The Holocene extinction continues into the 21st century, with meat consumption, overfishing, ocean acidification and the amphibian crisis being a few broader examples of an almost universal, cosmopolitan decline in biodiversity. Human overpopulation (and continued population growth) along with profligate consumption are considered to be the primary drivers of this rapid decline.[2][3]

Definitions [ edit ]

The Holocene extinction is also known as the "sixth extinction", due to its possibly being the sixth mass extinct event, after the Ordovician–Silurian extinction events, the Late Devonian extinction, the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, and the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.[4][5][6][7][2][1] There is no general agreement on where the Holocene, or anthropogenic, extinction begins, and the Quaternary extinction event, which includes climate change resulting in the end of the last ice age, ends, or if they should be considered separate events at all.[8][9] Some have suggested that anthropogenic extinctions may have begun as early as when the first modern humans spread out of Africa between 100,000 and 200,000 years ago, which is supported by rapid megafaunal extinction following recent human colonisation in Australia, New Zealand and Madagascar,[4] in a similar way that any large, adaptable predator moving into a new ecosystem would. In many cases, it is suggested even minimal hunting pressure was enough to wipe out large fauna, particularly on geographically isolated islands.[10][11] Only during the most recent parts of the extinction have plants also suffered large losses.[12]

In The Future of Life (2002), E.O. Wilson of Harvard calculated that, if the current rate of human disruption of the biosphere continues, one-half of Earth's higher lifeforms will be extinct by 2100. A 1998 poll conducted by the American Museum of Natural History found that seventy percent of biologists acknowledge the existence of the anthropogenic extinction.[13] Numerous scientific studies — such as a 2004 report published in Nature,[14] and papers authored by the IUCN's annual Red List of threatened species — have since reinforced this conviction. At present, the rate of extinction of species is estimated at 100 to 1,000 times higher than the "base" or historically typical rate of extinction (in terms of the natural evolution of the planet)[15][16][17] and also the current rate of extinction is, therefore, 10 to 100 times higher than any of the previous mass extinctions in the history of Earth. One scientist estimates the current extinction rate may be 10,000 times the background extinction rate. Nevertheless, most scientists predict a much lower extinction rate than this outlying estimate.[18] Stuart Pimm stated "the current rate of species extinction is about 100 times the natural rate" for plants.[19] Mass extinctions are characterized by the loss of at least 75% of species within a geologically short period of time.[20][21][22]

In a pair of studies published in 2015, extrapolation from observed extinction of Hawaiian snails led to the conclusion that 7% of all species on Earth may have been lost already.[23][24]

While there is widespread consensus in the scientific community that human activity is accelerating the extinction of many animal species through the destruction of wild lands, the consumption of animals as resources or luxuries, and the persecution of species that humans view as threats or competitors,[25] some contend that this biotic destruction has yet to rise to the level of the previous five mass extinctions. Stuart Pimm, for example, asserts that the sixth mass extinction "is something that hasn’t happened yet – we are on the edge of it."[26] In November 2017, a statement by 15,364 scientists from 184 countries asserted that, among other things, "we have unleashed a mass extinction event, the sixth in roughly 540 million years, wherein many current life forms could be annihilated or at least committed to extinction by the end of this century."[1]

Anthropocene [ edit ]

A diagram showing the ecological processes of coral reefs before and after the Anthropocene

The abundance of species extinctions considered anthropogenic, or due to human activity, have sometimes (especially when referring to hypothesized future events) been collectively called the "Anthropocene extinction".[27][28][25] "Anthropocene" is a term introduced in 2000. It is now posited by some that a new geological epoch has begun, characterised by the most abrupt and widespread extinction of species since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event 66 million years ago.[4]

The term "anthropocene" is being used more frequently by scientists, and some commentators may refer to the current and projected future extinctions as part of a longer Holocene extinction.[29][30] The Holocene–Anthropocene boundary is contested, with some commentators asserting significant human influence on climate for much of what is normally regarded as the Holocene Epoch.[31] Other commentators place the Holocene–Anthropocene boundary at the industrial revolution while also saying that, "[f]ormal adoption of this term in the near future will largely depend on its utility, particularly to earth scientists working on late Holocene successions."

It has been suggested that human activity has made the period following the mid-20th century different enough from the rest of the Holocene to consider it a new geological epoch, known as the Anthropocene,[32] which was considered for implementation into the timeline of Earth's history by the International Commission on Stratigraphy in 2016.[33][34] In order to constitute the Holocene as an extinction event, scientists must determine exactly when anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions began to measurably alter natural atmospheric levels at a global scale and when these alterations caused changes to global climate. Employing chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, researchers have estimated the fluctuations of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and methane gases (CH 4 ) in the earth’s atmosphere for the late Pleistocene and Holocene epochs.[31] Based on studies that estimated fluctuations of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere using chemical proxies from Antarctic ice cores, general argumentation of when the peak of the Anthropocene occurred pertains to the timeframe within the previous two centuries; typically beginning with the Industrial Revolution, when greenhouse gas levels were recorded by contemporary methods at its highest.[35][36]

Influences [ edit ]

Competition by humans [ edit ]

The percent of megafauna on different land masses over time, with the arrival of humans indicated.

The Holocene extinction is mainly caused by human activity.[5][6][25][7][2] Extinction of animals, plants, and other organisms caused by human actions may go as far back as the late Pleistocene, over 12,000 years ago.[25] There is a correlation between megafaunal extinction and the arrival of humans, and human overpopulation and human population growth, along with overconsumption and consumption growth, most prominently in the past two centuries, are regarded as one of the underlying causes of extinction.[5][37][2][3][38]

Megafauna were once found on every continent of the world and large islands such as New Zealand and Madagascar, but are now almost exclusively found on the continent of Africa, with notable comparisons on Australia and the islands previously mentioned experiencing population crashes and trophic cascades shortly after the earliest human settlers.[10][11] It has been suggested that the African megafauna survived because they evolved alongside humans.[4] The timing of South American megafaunal extinction appears to precede human arrival, although the possibility that human activity at the time impacted the global climate enough to cause such an extinction has been suggested.[4]

It has been noted, in the face of such evidence, that humans are unique in ecology as an unprecedented 'global superpredator', regularly preying on large numbers of fully grown terrestrial and marine apex predators, and with a great deal of influence over food webs and climatic systems worldwide.[39] Although significant debate exists as to how much human predation and indirect effects contributed to prehistoric extinctions, certain population crashes have been directly correlated with human arrival.[9][4][25]

Agriculture [ edit ]

Human civilization flourished in accordance to the efficiency and intensification of prevailing subsistence systems.[40] Local communities that acquire more subsistence strategies increased in number to combat competitive pressures of land utilization.[31][40] Therefore, the Holocene developed competition on the basis of agriculture. The growth of agriculture has then introduced newer means of climate change, pollution, and ecological development.[41]

Habitat destruction by humans, including oceanic devastation, such as through overfishing and contamination; and the modification and destruction of vast tracts of land and river systems around the world to meet solely human-centered ends (with 13 percent of Earth's ice-free land surface now used as row-crop agricultural sites, 26 percent used as pastures, and 4 percent urban-industrial areas[43]), thus replacing the original local ecosystems.[44] Other, related human causes of the extinction event include deforestation, hunting, pollution,[45] the introduction in various regions of non-native species, and the widespread transmission of infectious diseases spread through livestock and crops.[16]

Recent investigations about hunter-gatherer landscape burning has a major implication for the current debate about the timing of the Anthropocene and the role that humans may have played in the production of greenhouse gases prior to the Industrial Revolution.[40] Studies on early hunter-gatherers raises questions about the current use of population size or density as a proxy for the amount of land clearance and anthropogenic burning that took place in pre-industrial times.[46][47] Scientists have questioned the correlation between population size and early territorial alterations.[47] Ruddiman and Ellis' research paper in 2009 makes the case that early farmers involved in systems of agriculture used more land per capita than growers later in the Holocene, who intensified their labor to produce more food per unit of area (thus, per laborer); arguing that agricultural involvement in rice production implemented thousands of years ago by relatively small populations have created significant environmental impacts through large-scale means of deforestation.[40]

While a number of human-derived factors are recognized as potentially contributing to rising atmospheric concentrations of CH 4 and CO 2 , deforestation and territorial clearance practices associated with agricultural development may be contributing most to these concentrations globally.[35][48][40] Scientists that are employing a variance of archaeological and paleoecological data argue that the processes contributing to substantial human modification of the environment spanned many thousands of years ago on a global scale and thus, not originating as early as the Industrial Revolution. Gaining popularity on his uncommon hypothesis, palaeoclimatologist William Ruddiman in 2003, stipulated that in the early Holocene 11,000 years ago, atmospheric carbon dioxide and methane levels fluctuated in a pattern which was different from the Pleistocene epoch before it.[31][46][48] He argued that the patterns of the significant decline of CO 2 levels during the last ice age of the Pleistocene inversely correlates to the Holocene where there has been dramatic increases of CO 2 around 8000 years ago and CH 4 levels 3000 years after that.[48] The correlation between the decrease of CO 2 in the Pleistocene and the increase of it during the Holocene implies that the causation of this spark of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere was the growth of human agriculture during the Holocene such as the anthropogenic expansion of (human) land use and irrigation.[31][48]

Islands [ edit ]

Human arrival in the Caribbean around 6,000 years ago is correlated with the extinction of many species.[49] Examples include many different genera of ground and arboreal sloths across all islands. These sloths were generally smaller than those found on the South American continent. Megalocnus were the largest genus at up to 90 kilograms (200 lb), Acratocnus were medium-sized relatives of modern two-toed sloths endemic to Cuba, Imagocnus also of Cuba, Neocnus and many others.[50]

Recent research, based on archaeological and paleontological digs on 70 different Pacific islands has shown that numerous species became extinct as people moved across the Pacific, starting 30,000 years ago in the Bismarck Archipelago and Solomon Islands.[51] It is currently estimated that among the bird species of the Pacific, some 2000 species have gone extinct since the arrival of humans, representing a 20% drop in the biodiversity of birds worldwide.[52]

The first settlers are thought to have arrived in the islands between 300 and 800 CE, with European arrival in the 16th century. Hawaii is notable for its endemism of plants, birds, insects, mollusks and fish; 30% of its organisms are endemic. Many of its species are endangered or have gone extinct, primarily due to accidentally introduced species and livestock grazing. Over 40% of its bird species have gone extinct, and it is the location of 75% of extinctions in the United States.[53] Extinction has increased in Hawaii over the last 200 years and is relatively well documented, with extinctions among native snails used as estimates for global extinction rates.[23]

Australia [ edit ]

Genyornis newtoni, a 2-metre (7 ft) tall flightless bird. Evidence of egg cooking in this species is the first evidence of megafaunal hunting by humans on Australia.[54] , a 2-metre (7 ft) tall flightless bird. Evidence of egg cooking in this species is the first evidence of megafaunal hunting by humans on Australia.

Australia was once home to a large assemblage of megafauna, with many parallels to those found on the African continent today. Australia's fauna is characterised by primarily marsupial mammals, and many reptiles and birds, all existing as giant forms until recently. Humans arrived on the continent very early, about 50,000 years ago.[4] The extent human arrival contributed is controversial; climatic drying of Australia 40,000–60,000 years ago was an unlikely cause, as it was less severe in speed or magnitude than previous regional climate change which failed to kill off megafauna. Extinctions in Australia continued from original settlement until today in both plants and animals, whilst many more animals and plants have declined or are endangered.[55]

Due to the older timeframe and the soil chemistry on the continent, very little subfossil preservation evidence exists relative to elsewhere.[56] However, continent-wide extinction of all genera weighing over 100 kilograms, and six of seven genera weighing between 45 and 100 kilograms occurred around 46,400 years ago (4,000 years after human arrival)[57] and the fact that megafauna survived until a later date on the island of Tasmania following the establishment of a land bridge[58] suggest direct hunting or anthropogenic ecosystem disruption such as fire-stick farming as likely causes. The first evidence of direct human predation leading to extinction in Australia was published in 2016.[54]

Madagascar [ edit ]

Radiocarbon dating of multiple subfossil specimens shows that now extinct giant lemurs were present in Madagascar until after human arrival.

Within 500 years of the arrival of humans between 2,500–2,000 years ago, nearly all of Madagascar's distinct, endemic and geographically isolated megafauna became extinct.[59] The largest animals, of more than 150 kilograms (330 lb), were extinct very shortly after the first human arrival, with large and medium-sized species dying out after prolonged hunting pressure from an expanding human population moving into more remote regions of the island around 1000 years ago. Smaller fauna experienced initial increases due to decreased competition, and then subsequent declines over the last 500 years.[11] All fauna weighing over 10 kilograms (22 lb) died out. The primary reasons for this are human hunting and habitat loss from early aridification, both of which persist and threaten Madagascar's remaining taxa today.[citation needed]

The eight or more species of elephant birds, giant flightless ratites in the genera Aepyornis and Mullerornis, are extinct from over-hunting,[60] as well as 17 species of lemur, known as giant, subfossil lemurs. Some of these lemurs typically weighed over 150 kilograms (330 lb), and fossils have provided evidence of human butchery on many species.[61]

New Zealand [ edit ]

New Zealand is characterised by its geographic isolation and island biogeography, and had been isolated from mainland Australia for 80 million years. It was the last large land mass to be colonised by humans. The arrival of Polynesian settlers circa 12th century resulted in the extinction of all of the islands' megafaunal birds within several hundred years.[62] The last moa, large flightless ratites, became extinct within 200 years of the arrival of human settlers.[10] The Polynesians also introduced the Polynesian rat. This may have put some pressure on other birds but at the time of early European contact (18th Century) and colonisation (19th Century) the bird life was prolific. With them, the Europeans brought ship rats, possums, cats and mustelids which decimated native bird life, some of which had adapted flightlessness and ground nesting habits and others had no defensive behavior as a result of having no extant endemic mammalian predators. The kakapo, the world's biggest parrot, which is flightless, now only exists in managed breeding sanctuaries and NZ's national emblem, the kiwi, is on the endangered bird list.[62]

Americas [ edit ]

The passenger pigeon was a species of pigeon endemic to North America . It experienced a rapid decline in the late 1800s due to intense hunting after the arrival of Europeans. The last wild bird is thought to have been shot in 1901.

There has been a debate as to the extent to which the disappearance of megafauna at the end of the last glacial period can be attributed to human activities by hunting, or even by slaughter[63] of prey populations. Discoveries at Monte Verde in South America and at Meadowcroft Rock Shelter in Pennsylvania have caused a controversy[64] regarding the Clovis culture. There likely would have been human settlements prior to the Clovis Culture, and the history of humans in the Americas may extend back many thousands of years before the Clovis culture.[64] The amount of correlation between human arrival and megafauna extinction is still being debated: for example, in Wrangel Island in Siberia the extinction of dwarf woolly mammoths (approximately 2000 BCE)[65] did not coincide with the arrival of humans, nor did megafaunal mass extinction on the South American continent, although it has been suggested climate changes induced by anthropogenic effects elsewhere in the world may have contributed.[4]

Comparisons are sometimes made between recent extinctions (approximately since the industrial revolution) and the Pleistocene extinction near the end of the last glacial period. The latter is exemplified by the extinction of large herbivores such as the woolly mammoth and the carnivores that preyed on them. Humans of this era actively hunted the mammoth and the mastodon[66] but it is not known if this hunting was the cause of the subsequent massive ecological changes, widespread extinctions and climate changes.[8][9]

The ecosystems encountered by the first Americans had not been exposed to human interaction, and may have been far less resilient to human made changes than the ecosystems encountered by industrial era humans. Therefore, the actions of the Clovis people, despite seeming insignificant by today's standards could indeed have had a profound effect on the ecosystems and wild life which was entirely unused to human influence.[4]

Afroeurasia [ edit ]

Africa experienced the smallest decline in megafauna compared to the other continents. This is presumably due to the idea that Afroeurasian megafauna evolved alongside humans, and thus developed a healthy fear of them, unlike the comparatively tame animals of other continents.[67] Unlike other continents, the megafauna of Eurasia went extinct over a relatively long period of time, possibly due to climate fluctuations fragmenting and decreasing populations, leaving them vulnerable to over-exploitation, as with the steppe bison (Bison priscus).[68] The warming of the arctic region caused the rapid decline of grasslands, which had a negative effect on the grazing megafauna of Eurasia. Most of what once was mammoth steppe has been converted to mire, rendering the environment incapable of supporting them, notably the woolly mammoth.[69]

Climate change [ edit ]

Top: Middle: Bottom: Potential vegetation in climate now if not for human effects like agriculture.[70] Arid ice age climate Atlantic Period , warm and wetPotential vegetation in climate now if not for human effects like agriculture.

One of the main theories to the extinction is climate change. The climate change theory has suggested that a change in climate near the end of the late Pleistocene stressed the megafauna to the point of extinction.[29][71] Some scientists favor abrupt climate change as the catalyst for the extinction of the mega-fauna at the end of the Pleistocene, but there are many who believe increased hunting from early modern humans also played a part, with others even suggesting that the two interacted.[4][72][73] However, the annual mean temperature of the current interglacial period for the last 10,000 years is no higher than that of previous interglacial periods, yet some of the same megafauna survived similar temperature increases.[74][75][76][77][78][79] In the Americas, a controversial explanation for the shift in climate is presented under the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, which states that the impact of comets cooled global temperatures.[80][81][82]

Megafaunal extinction [ edit ]

Megafauna play a significant role in the lateral transport of mineral nutrients in an ecosystem, tending to translocate them from areas of high to those of lower abundance. They do so by their movement between the time they consume the nutrient and the time they release it through elimination (or, to a much lesser extent, through decomposition after death).[83] In South America's Amazon Basin, it is estimated that such lateral diffusion was reduced over 98% following the megafaunal extinctions that occurred roughly 12,500 years ago.[84][85] Given that phosphorus availability is thought to limit productivity in much of the region, the decrease in its transport from the western part of the basin and from floodplains (both of which derive their supply from the uplift of the Andes) to other areas is thought to have significantly impacted the region's ecology, and the effects may not yet have reached their limits.[85] The extinction of the mammoths allowed grasslands they had maintained through grazing habits to become birch forests.[8] The new forest and the resulting forest fires may have induced climate change.[8] Such disappearances might be the result of the proliferation of modern humans; some recent studies favor this theory.[25][86]

Large populations of megaherbivores have the potential to contribute greatly to the atmospheric concentration of methane, which is an important greenhouse gas. Modern ruminant herbivores produce methane as a byproduct of foregut fermentation in digestion, and release it through belching or flatulence. Today, around 20% of annual methane emissions come from livestock methane release. In the Mesozoic, it has been estimated that sauropods could have emitted 520 million tons of methane to the atmosphere annually,[87] contributing to the warmer climate of the time (up to 10 °C warmer than at present).[87][88] This large emission follows from the enormous estimated biomass of sauropods, and because methane production of individual herbivores is believed to be almost proportional to their mass.[87]

Recent studies have indicated that the extinction of megafaunal herbivores may have caused a reduction in atmospheric methane. This hypothesis is relatively new.[89] One study examined the methane emissions from the bison that occupied the Great Plains of North America before contact with European settlers. The study estimated that the removal of the bison caused a decrease of as much as 2.2 million tons per year.[90] Another study examined the change in the methane concentration in the atmosphere at the end of the Pleistocene epoch after the extinction of megafauna in the Americas. After early humans migrated to the Americas about 13,000 BP, their hunting and other associated ecological impacts led to the extinction of many megafaunal species there. Calculations suggest that this extinction decreased methane production by about 9.6 million tons per year. This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas.[89] The decrease in atmospheric methane that occurred at that time, as recorded in ice cores, was 2–4 times more rapid than any other decrease in the last half million years, suggesting that an unusual mechanism was at work.[89]

Disease [ edit ]

The hyperdisease hypothesis, proposed by Ross MacPhee in 1997, states that the megafaunal die-off was due to an indirect transmission of diseases by newly arriving aboriginal humans.[91][92][93] According to MacPhee, aboriginals or animals travelling with them, such as domestic dogs or livestock, introduced one or more highly virulent diseases into new environments whose native population had no immunity to them, eventually leading to their extinction. K-selection animals, such as the now-extinct megafauna, are especially vulnerable to diseases, as opposed to r-selection animals who have a shorter gestation period and a higher population size. Humans are thought to be the sole cause as other earlier migrations of animals into North America from Eurasia did not cause extinctions.[91]

There are many problems with this theory in the scientific community, as this disease would have to meet several criteria: it has to be able to sustain itself in an environment with no hosts; it has to have a high infection rate; and be extremely lethal, with a mortality rate of 50–75%. Disease has to be very virulent to kill off all the individuals in a genus or species, and even such a virulent disease as West Nile Virus is unlikely to have caused extinction.[94]

However, diseases have been the cause for some extinctions. The introduction of avian malaria and avipoxvirus, for example, have had a negative impact on the endemic birds of Hawaii.[95]

Defaunation [ edit ]

[96] The golden toad of Costa Rica, extinct since around 1989. Its disappearance has been attributed to a confluence of several factors, including El Niño warming, fungus, habitat loss and the introduction of invasive species.

[97] There are roughly 880 mountain gorillas remaining in existence. 60% of primate species face an anthropogenically driven extinction crisis and 75% have declining populations.

The loss of species from ecological communities, defaunation, is primarily driven by human activity.[6] This has resulted in empty forests, ecological communities depleted of large vertebrates.[100][25] This is not to be confused with extinction, as it includes both the disappearance of species and declines in abundance.[101] Defaunation effects were first implied at the Symposium of Plant-Animal Interactions at the University of Campinas, Brazil in 1988 in the context of neotropical forests.[102] Since then, the term has gained broader usage in conservation biology as a global phenomenon.[103][102]

Big cat populations have severely declined over the last half-century and could face extinction in the following decades. According to IUCN estimates: lions are down to 25,000, from 450,000; leopards are down to 50,000, from 750,000; cheetahs are down to 12,000, from 45,000; tigers are down to 3,000 in the wild, from 50,000.[104] A December 2016 study by the Zoological Society of London, Panthera Corporation and Wildlife Conservation Society showed that cheetahs are far closer to extinction than previously thought, with only 7,100 remaining in the wild, and crammed within only 9% of their historic range.[105] Human pressures are to blame for the cheetah population crash, including prey loss due to overhunting by people, retaliatory killing from farmers, habitat loss and the illegal wildlife trade.[106]

“ We are seeing the effects of 7 billion people on the planet. At present rates, we will lose the big cats in 10 to 15 years. ” — Naturalist Dereck Joubert, co-founder of the National Geographic Big Cats Initiative[104]

The term pollinator decline refers to the reduction in abundance of insect and other animal pollinators in many ecosystems worldwide beginning at the end of the twentieth century, and continuing into the present day.[107] Pollinators, which are necessary for 75% of food crops, are declining globally in both abundance and diversity.[108] A 2017 study led by Radboud University's Hans de Kroon indicated that the biomass of insect life in Germany had declined by three-quarters in the previous 25 years. Participating researcher Dave Goulson of Sussex University stated that their study suggested that humans are making large parts of the planet uninhabitable for wildlife. Goulson characterized the situation as an approaching "ecological Armageddon", adding that "if we lose the insects then everything is going to collapse."[109]

“ We have driven the rate of biological extinction, the permanent loss of species, up several hundred times beyond its historical levels, and are threatened with the loss of a majority of all species by the end of the 21st century. ” — Peter Raven, former president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), in the foreword to their publication AAAS Atlas of Population and Environment[110]

Various species are predicted to become extinct in the near future,[111] among them the rhinoceros,[112] primates,[97] pangolins,[113] and giraffes.[114][115] Hunting alone threatens bird and mammalian populations around the world.[116][117][118] Some scientists and academics assert that industrial agriculture and the growing demand for meat is contributing to significant global biodiversity loss as this is a significant driver of deforestation and habitat destruction; species-rich habitats, such as significant portions of the Amazon region, are being converted to agriculture for meat production.[7][119][120][121] A 2017 study by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) found that 60% of biodiversity loss can be attributed to the vast scale of feed crop cultivation required to rear tens of billions of farm animals.[122] Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, Livestock's Long Shadow, also found that the livestock sector is a "leading player" in biodiversity loss.[123] According to the WWF's 2016 Living Planet Index, global wildlife populations have declined 58% since 1970, primarily due to habitat destruction, over-hunting and pollution. They project that if current trends continue, 67% of wildlife could disappear by 2020.[124][125] 189 countries, which are signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio Accord),[126] have committed to preparing a Biodiversity Action Plan, a first step at identifying specific endangered species and habitats, country by country.[127]

“ For the first time since the demise of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago, we face a global mass extinction of wildlife. We ignore the decline of other species at our peril – for they are the barometer that reveals our impact on the world that sustains us. ” — Mike Barrett, director of science and policy at WWF's UK branch[128]

Recent extinction [ edit ]

Recent extinctions are more directly attributable to human influences, whereas prehistoric extinctions can be attributed to other factors, such as global climate change.[5][6] The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) characterises 'recent' extinction as those that have occurred past the cut-off point of 1500,[129] and at least 875 species have gone extinct since that time and 2012.[130] Some species, such as the Père David's deer[131] and the Hawaiian crow,[132] are extinct in the wild, and survive solely in captive populations. Other species, such as the Florida panther, are ecologically extinct, surviving in such low numbers that that they essentially have no impact on the ecosystem.[133]:318 Other populations are only locally extinct (extirpated), still existence elsewhere, but reduced in distribution,[133]:75–77 as with the extinction of gray whales in the Atlantic,[134] and of the leatherback sea turtle in Malaysia.[135]

Habitat destruction [ edit ]

Global warming is widely accepted as being a contributor to extinction worldwide, in a similar way that previous extinction events have generally included a rapid change in global climate and meteorology. It is also expected to disrupt sex ratios in many reptiles which have temperature-dependent sex determination.

The removal of land to clear way for palm oil plantations releases carbon emissions held in the peatlands of Indonesia.[138][139] Palm oil mainly serves as a cheap cooking oil,[140] and also as a (controversial) biofuel. However, damage to peatland contributes to 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and 8% of those caused by burning fossil fuels.[141] Palm oil cultivation has also been criticized for other impacts to the environment,[142][143] including deforestation,[144] which has threatened critically endangered species such as the orangutan.[145][146] The IUCN stated in 2016 that the species could go extinct within a decade if measures are not taken to preserve the rainforests in which they live.[147] Tree-kangaroos are also threatened with extinction as the result of palm oil deforestation.[148]

Rising levels of carbon dioxide are resulting in influx of this gas into the ocean, increasing its acidity. Marine organisms which possess Calcium Carbonate shells or exoskeletons experience physiological pressure as the carbonate reacts with acid. This is already resulting in coral bleaching on various coral reefs worldwide, which provide valuable habitat for very high biodiversity. Marine gastropods, bivalves and other invertebrates are also affected, as are any organisms that feed on them.

Some researchers suggest that by 2050 there could be more plastic than fish in the oceans by weight.[38]

Overexploitation [ edit ]

[149] The species could be extinct by autumn of 2017, according to WWF conservationists.[150] The Vaquita , the world's most endangered marine mammal, has been reduced to only 30 individuals as of February 2017. They are often killed by commercial fishing nets.The species could be extinct by autumn of 2017, according to WWF conservationists.

Overhunting can reduce the local population of game animals by more than half, as well as reducing population density, and may lead to extinction for some species.[151] Populations located nearer to villages are significantly more at risk of depletion.[152][153]

The surge in the mass killings by poachers involved in the illegal ivory trade along with habitat loss is threatening African elephant populations.[154][155] In 1979, their populations stood at 1.7 million; at present there are fewer than 400,000 remaining.[156] Prior to European colonization, scientists believe Africa was home to roughly 20 million elephants.[157] According to the Great Elephant Census, 30% of African elephants (or 144,000 individuals) disappeared over a seven-year period, 2007 to 2014.[155][158] African elephants could become extinct by 2035 if poaching rates continue.[115]

The collapse of Atlantic cod off the coast of Newfoundland in 1992 as a result of overfishing . The population never recovered, completely altering the ecosystem and rendering the species locally extinct

Fishing has had a devastating effect on marine organism populations for several centuries even before the explosion of destructive and highly effective fishing practices like trawling.[159] Humans are unique among predators in that they regularly predate on other adult apex predators, particularly in marine environments;[39] bluefin tuna, blue whales, and various sharks in particular are particularly vulnerable to predation pressure from human fishing. A 2016 study published in Science concludes that humans tend to hunt larger species, and this could disrupt ocean ecosystems for millions of years.[160]

“ If this pattern goes unchecked, the future oceans would lack many of the largest species in today’s oceans. Many large species play critical roles in ecosystems and so their extinctions could lead to ecological cascades that would influence the structure and function of future ecosystems beyond the simple fact of losing those species. ” — Jonathan Payne, associate professor and chair of geological sciences at Stanford University[161]

Disease [ edit ]

The decline of amphibian populations has also been identified as an indicator of environmental degradation. As well as habitat loss, introduced predators and pollution, Chytridiomycosis, a fungal infection thought to have been accidentally spread by human travel,[4] has caused severe population drops of several species of frogs, including (among many others) the extinction of the golden toad in Costa Rica and the Gastric-brooding frog in Australia. Many other amphibian species now face extinction, including the reduction of Rabb's fringe-limbed treefrog to an endling, and the extinction of the Panamanian golden frog in the wild. Chytrid fungus has spread across Australia, New Zealand, Central America and Africa, including countries with high amphibian diversity such as cloud forests in Honduras and Madagascar. Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans is a similar infection currently threatening salamanders. Amphibians are now the most endangered vertebrate group, having existed for more than 300 million years through three other mass extinctions.[4]:17

Millions of bats in the US have been dying off since 2012 due to a fungal infection spread from European bats, which appear to be immune. Population drops have been as great as 90% within five years, and extinction of at least one bat species is predicted. There is currently no form of treatment, and such declines have been described as "unprecedented" in bat evolutionary history by Alan Hicks of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.[citation needed]

See also [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

Actually, human civilization is becoming increasingly concerned with global warming at a surprising rate. According to [this article](http://climatecommunication.yale.edu/publications/republican-views-on-climate-change/), #1#more than half of surveyed Republicans and Republican-leaning independents believe climate change is real and would take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions#1#. I looked at a lot of similar articles/studies, and the numbers range from slightly less than 50% to over 70%. Even the biggest skeptics of global warming are changing their tune.



http://climatecommunication.yale.edu/publications/republican-views-on-climate-change/
YALE PROGRAM ON CLIMATE CHANGE COMMUNICATION
Home / Publications / A National Survey of Republicans and Republican–Leaning Independents on Energy and Climate Change

Report · Apr 2, 2013 A National Survey of Republicans and Republican–Leaning Independents on Energy and Climate Change Report Summary This report contains topline results of a national survey of 726 adults who recently identified as a Republican or a Republican-leaning Independent. Highlights: #1#A majority of respondents (52%) believe climate change is happening#1#, while 26 percent believe it is not, and 22 percent say they “don’t know.”

A large majority (77%) says the United States should use more renewable energy sources (solar, wind & geothermal) in the future. Among those who support expanded use of renewable energy, nearly 7 out of 10 think the U.S. should increase the use of renewable energy “immediately”.

Republicans and Republican-leaning Independents prefer clean energy as the basis of America’s energy future and say the benefits of clean energy, such as energy independence (66%), saving resources for our children and grandchildren (57%), and providing a better life for our children and grandchildren (56%) outweigh the costs, such as more government regulation (42%) or higher energy prices (31%).

By a margin of 2 to 1, respondents say America should take action to reduce our fossil fuel use.

Only one third of respondents agree with the Republican Party’s position on climate change, while about half agree with the party’s position on how to meet America’s energy needs.

A large majority of respondents say their elected representatives are unresponsive to their views about climate change. Download as PDF Download the Report Download Full Report PDF Document Project Climate Change in the American Mind

>I don't see any basis for thinking we will be able to do things like that in time.

What?  You don't think we are developing technology that can be used to overcome a warming climate and limited biodiversity?  #1#[Here's one tech that would probably go a long way to helping us in the event of a mass extinction]#1#(https://www.fastcoexist.com/3044572/the-325000-lab-grown-hamburger-now-costs-less-than-12)  

We don't need a consensus in order to start developing the tech.  We just need some companies who see that profit could be made.  Giant companies can afford to have long lead time products and also products that may never make a profit.

This tech also overlaps greatly with tech for living on Mars and we're currently developing tech for that.

>It isn't that we're not moving fast enough; it's that we're moving very fast in the wrong direction with no signs of slowing.

This just isn't true.  Technology isn't going backwards.  Even if we are destroying are planet, technology is always moving forward and we are constantly developing new stuff.  Who knows what will be important when a mass extinction event comes, but I can imagine that tech that we already have and that we are developing for other purposes (like say Algae growth for biofuels) could come in handy in the event of mass extinction.



https://www.fastcoexist.com/3044572/the-325000-lab-grown-hamburger-now-costs-less-than-12
THE $325,000 LAB-GROWN HAMBURGER NOW COSTS LESS THAN $12
#1#The artificial burger that you–or your science-fiction-loving friends–have been waiting for is real.#1# And now it’s cheap, too.

It wasn’t long ago that test-tube hamburgers–meat made from small pieces of lab-grown animal muscle tissue–were just a glimmer in some mad scientist’s eye. Then, in 2013, the dream of an artificial burger suddenly got interesting. That’s when Mark Post, a researcher at Maastricht University in the Netherlands, announced that he had created a burger made from real meat grown in a lab (20,000 strips of muscle tissue, to be exact) for the unreasonable price of $325,000. Now that price has dropped to just over $11 for a burger ($80 per kilogram of meat), according to a recent ABC News interview with Post.

Here’s how Co.Exist described Post’s experiment back in 2013:

Post’s cultured meat creation process goes something like this: myosatellite cells, a kind of stem cell that repairs muscle tissue, are taken from a cow neck and put in containers along with fetal calf serum (the medium, which will eventually switch to a non-animal source). The cells are placed onto gel in a plastic dish, where the calf serum’s nutrients are reduced, triggering the cells to go into starvation mode and split into muscle cells. Those cells eventually merge into muscle fibers called myotubes and start synthesizing protein. The end product is a tissue strip, described by the New York Times as “something like a short pink rice noodle.”

It hardly sounds appetizing, and, according to those who tried the burger back when it was first announced, it still had a ways to go in the flavor department. But it wasn’t terrible.

While the price of the burger has dropped to almost-reasonable prices, Post told ABC that it will still be another 20 to 30 years before it’s commercially viable. Among the hurdles still left to overcome: figuring out how to produce test-tube meat at scale, and coming up with a way to produce it that doesn’t use fetal calf serum (currently, cells are grown in the serum, which is taken from cow fetus blood).

And, of course, there’s the biggest hurdle of all: convincing people to eat lab-grown meat.

This is nothing new.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/eric-zuesse/why-hillary-clinton-shoul_b_4293469.html

#1#This is written by huffington post, left wing horribly, in 2013, and clearly states hillary's corruption is well known.#1#

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVS8-1KwS2c this is Obama talking about Hillary taking in money from the rich in 2008, comparing it to now.

Her being corrupt isn't new, it's who she has been pretty much her entire career.

There is nothing new here outside any new scandals, her corruption was well known and there is no proof Russia hacked anything.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVS8-1KwS2c
YOUTUBE
For the house. On the house.

Loading...

Treat the fam to 1 free month of YouTube Red. Ad-free music for up to 6 household accounts.

Depends on your voting method. #1#Some methods would award it to large parties, some to smaller ones.#1#

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Hondt_method




https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Hondt_method
D'HONDT METHOD
#1#The D'Hondt method[a] or the Jefferson method is a highest averages method for allocating seats#1#, and is thus a type of party-list proportional representation. The method described is named in United States after Thomas Jefferson, who introduced the method for proportional allocation of seats in the United States House of Representatives in 1791, and in Europe after Belgian mathematician Victor D'Hondt, who described it in 1878 for proportional allocation of parliamentary seats to the parties. There are two forms: closed list (a party selects the order of election of their candidates) and an open list (voters' choices determine the order).

Proportional representation systems aim to allocate seats to parties approximately in proportion to the number of votes received. For example, if a party wins one-third of the votes then it should gain about one-third of the seats. In general, exact proportionality is not possible because these divisions produce fractional numbers of seats. As a result, several methods, of which the D'Hondt method is one, have been devised which ensure that the parties' seat allocations, which are of course whole numbers, are as proportional as possible.[1] In comparison with the Sainte-Laguë method, D'Hondt slightly favours large parties and coalitions over scattered small parties.[2][3][4][5]

Legislatures using this system include those of Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, East Timor, Ecuador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Kosovo, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Scotland, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, Uruguay, and Wales.

The system has also been used for the "top-up" seats in the London Assembly; in some countries for elections to the European Parliament; and during the 1997 Constitution era to allocate party-list parliamentary seats in Thailand.[6] A modified form was used for elections in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, but this was abandoned in favour of the Hare-Clark system. The system is also used in practice for the allocation between political groups of a large number of posts (Vice Presidents, committee chairmen and vice-chairmen, delegation chairmen and vice-chairmen) in the European Parliament and for the allocation of ministers in the Northern Ireland Assembly.[7]

Allocation [ edit ]

After all the votes have been tallied, successive quotients are calculated for each party. The formula for the quotient is[8][1]

quot = V s + 1 {\displaystyle {\text{quot}}={\frac {V}{s+1}}}

where:

V is the total number of votes that party received, and

is the total number of votes that party received, and s is the number of seats that party has been allocated so far, initially 0 for all parties.

The total votes cast for each party in the electoral district is divided, first by 1, then by 2, then 3, up to the total number of seats to be allocated for the district/constituency. Say there are p parties and s seats. Then a grid of numbers can be created, with p rows and s columns, where the entry in the ith row and jth column is the number of votes won by the ith party, divided by j. The s winning entries are the s highest numbers in the whole grid; each party is given as many seats as there are winning entries in its row.

Example [ edit ]

In this example, 230,000 voters decide the disposition of 8 seats among 4 parties. Since 8 seats are to be allocated, each party's total votes is divided by 1, then by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. The 8 highest entries, marked with asterisks, range from 100,000 down to 25,000. For each, the corresponding party gets a seat.

For comparison, the "Proportionate seats" column shows the exact fractional numbers of seats due, calculated in proportion to the number of votes received. (For example, 100,000/230,000 × 8 = 3.48) The slight favouring of the largest party over the smallest is apparent.

Denominator 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Seats

won (*) Proportionate

seats Party A 100,000* 50,000* 33,333* 25,000* 20,000 16,666 14,286 12,500 4 3.4 Party B 80,000* 40,000* 26,666* 20,000 16,000 13,333 11,428 10,000 3 2.8 Party C 30,000* 15,000 10,000 7,500 6,000 5,000 4,286 3,750 1 1.1 Party D 20,000 10,000 6,666 5,000 4,000 3,333 2,857 2,500 0 0.7

Jefferson and D'Hondt [ edit ]

The Jefferson and the D'Hondt methods are equivalent. They always give the same results, but the methods of presenting the calculation are different. The U.S. statesman and future President Thomas Jefferson devised the method in 1792 for the U.S. congressional apportionment pursuant to the First United States Census. It was used to achieve the proportional distribution of seats in the House of Representatives among the states until 1842.[9]

Victor D'Hondt presented his method in his publication 'Système pratique et raisonné de représentation proportionnelle', published in Brussels in 1882.

The system can be used both for distributing seats in a legislature among states pursuant to populations or among parties pursuant to an election result. The tasks are mathematically equivalent, putting states in the place of parties and population in place of votes. In some countries, the Jefferson system is known by the names of local politicians or experts who introduced them locally. For example, it is known in Israel as the Bader-Ofer system.

Jefferson's method uses a quota (called a divisor), as in the largest remainder method. The divisor is chosen as necessary so that the resulting quotients, disregarding any fractional remainders, sum to the required total; in other words, pick a number so that there is no need to examine the remainders. Any number in one range of quotas will accomplish this, with the highest number in the range always being the same as the lowest number used by the D'Hondt method to award a seat if it is used rather than the Jefferson method, and the lowest number in the range being the next highest number in the D'Hondt calculations plus one.

Applied to the above example of party lists, this range extends as integers from 20,001 to 25,000.

Threshold [ edit ]

In some cases, a threshold or barrage is set, and any list which does not achieve that threshold will not have any seats allocated to it, even if it received enough votes to have otherwise been rewarded with a seat. Examples of countries using the D'Hondt method with a threshold are Albania (3% for single parties, 5% for coalitions of two or more parties, no threshold is applied for independent individuals); Denmark (2%); East Timor, Spain, and Montenegro (3%); Israel (3.25%); Slovenia (4%); Croatia, Romania, and Serbia (5%); Russia (5%); Turkey (10%); Poland (5%, or 8% for coalitions; but does not apply for ethnic-minority parties); Czech Republic (5% for single party, 10% for two-party coalitions, 15% for coalitions of 3 parties, 20% for coalitions of 4 or more parties)[10], Hungary (5% for single party, 10% for two-party coalitions, 15% for coalitions of 3 or more parties) and Belgium (5%, on regional basis). In the Netherlands, a party must win enough votes for one strictly proportional full seat (note that this is not necessary in plain D'Hondt), which with 150 seats in the lower chamber gives an effective threshold of 0.67%. In Estonia, candidates receiving the simple quota in their electoral districts are considered elected, but in the second (district level) and third round of counting (nationwide, modified D'Hondt method) mandates are awarded only to candidate lists receiving more than the threshold of 5% of the votes nationally.

The method can cause a hidden threshold.[11][12] It depends on the number of seats that are allocated with the D'Hondt method. In Finland's parliamentary elections, there is no official threshold, but the effective threshold is gaining one seat. The country is divided into districts with different numbers of representatives, so there is a hidden threshold, different in each district. The largest district, Uusimaa with 33 representatives, has a hidden threshold of 3%, while the smallest district, South Savo with 6 representatives, has a hidden threshold of 14%.[13] This favors large parties in the small districts. In Croatia, the official threshold is 5% for parties and coalitions. However, since the country is divided into 10 voting districts with 14 elected representatives each, sometimes the threshold can be higher, depending on the number of votes of "fallen lists" (lists that don't get at least 5%). If many votes are lost in this manner, a list that gets 5% will still get a seat, whereas if there is a small number votes for parties that don't pass the threshold, the actual ("natural") threshold is close to 7.15%. Some systems allow parties to associate their lists together into a single "cartel" in order to overcome the threshold, while some systems set a separate threshold for such cartels. Smaller parties often form pre-election coalitions to make sure they get past the election threshold. In the Netherlands, cartels (lijstverbindingen) cannot be used to overcome the threshold, but they do influence the distribution of remainder seats; thus, smaller parties can use them to get a chance which is more like that of the big parties.

In French municipal and regional elections, the D'Hondt method is used to attribute a number of council seats; however, a fixed proportion of them (50% for municipal elections, 25% for regional elections) is automatically given to the list with the greatest number of votes, to ensure that it has a working majority: this is called the "majority bonus" (prime à la majorité), and only the remainder of the seats are distributed proportionally (including to the list which has already received the majority bonus). In Italian local elections a similar system is used, where the party or coalition of parties linked to the elected mayor automatically receives 60% of seats; unlike the French model though the remainder of the seats are not distributed again to the largest party.

Variations [ edit ]

The D'Hondt method can also be used in conjunction with a quota formula to allocate most seats, applying the D'Hondt method to allocate any remaining seats to get a result identical to that achieved by the standard D'Hondt formula. This variation is known as the Hagenbach-Bischoff System, and is the formula frequently used when a country's electoral system is referred to simply as 'D'Hondt'.

In the election of Legislative Assembly of Macau, a modified D'Hondt method is used. The formula for the quotient in this system is V 2 s {\displaystyle \textstyle {\frac {V}{2^{s}}}} .

The term "modified D'Hondt" has also been given to the use of the D'Hondt method in the additional member system used for the Scottish Parliament, National Assembly for Wales, and London Assembly, in which after constituency seats have been allocated to parties by first-past-the-post, D'Hondt is applied for the allocation of list seats taking into account for each party the number of constituency seats it has won.

Regional D'Hondt [ edit ]

In most countries, seats for the national assembly are divided on a regional or even a provincial level. This means the D'Hondt method is applied to the total number of votes in each province which then divides up the limited number of seats.[clarification needed] The votes for parties that have not gained a seat at the regional level are thus discarded, so they do not aggregate at a national level. This means that parties which have gained a 5% of the vote nationally may still end up with no seats as they did not gain enough votes in each provincial jurisdiction. This may also lead to skewed seat allocation at a national level, such as in Spain in 2011 where the People's Party gained an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies with only 44% of the national vote.[1]

Notes [ edit ]

^ The name D'Hondt is sometimes spelt as "d'Hondt". For example it is customary in the Netherlands to write such surnames with a lower-case "d" when preceded by the forename: thus Victor d'Hondt (with a small d), while the surname all by itself would be D'Hondt (with a capital D). However, in Belgium it is always capitalized, hence: Victor D'Hondt.

#1#While an interesting idea, Congressional districts are not neutrally defined.#1#

And besides, what's a state if not just a very large district? Why not use a popular vote, if you don't want to render certain people's votes meaningless?

[Link](https://www.google.be/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/05/15/americas-most-gerrymandered-congressional-districts/&ved=0ahUKEwjT1Jiaxp7QAhVBKcAKHZU-AzUQFghJMAU&usg=AFQjCNF_kD71W8qjdLbbl6BZtnuoslu-Og&sig2=mErJC0K23xnjCVHGkqLjXg)

Edit : You'd just change the issue from battleground states to battleground distructs, with the difference that dustricts can be manipulated.



https://www.google.be/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/05/15/americas-most-gerrymandered-congressional-districts/&ved=0ahUKEwjT1Jiaxp7QAhVBKcAKHZU-AzUQFghJMAU&usg=AFQjCNF_kD71W8qjdLbbl6BZtnuoslu-Og&sig2=mErJC0K23xnjCVHGkqLjXg
AMERICA’S MOST GERRYMANDERED CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS
Crimes against geography.

This election year we can expect to hear a lot about Congressional district gerrymandering, which is when political parties redraw district boundaries to give themselves an electoral advantage.

Gerrymandering is at least partly to blame for the lopsided Republican representation in the House. According to an analysis I did last year, the Democrats are under-represented by about 18 seats in the House, relative to their vote share in the 2012 election. The way Republicans pulled that off was to draw some really, really funky-looking Congressional districts.

Contrary to one popular misconception about the practice, the point of gerrymandering isn't to draw yourself a collection of overwhelmingly safe seats. Rather, it's to give your opponents a small number of safe seats, while drawing yourself a larger number of seats that are not quite as safe, but that you can expect to win comfortably. Considering this dynamic, John Sides of The Washington Post's Monkey Cage blog has argued convincingly that gerrymandering is not what's behind the rising polarization in Congress.

#1#The process of re-drawing district lines to give an advantage to one party over another is called "gerrymandering".#1# Here's how it works. (Daron Taylor/The Washington Post)

The compactness of a district -- a measure of how irregular its shape is, as determined by the ratio of the area of the district to the area of a circle with the same perimeter -- can serve as a useful proxy for how gerrymandered the district is. Districts that follow a generally regular shape tend to be compact, while those that have a lot of squiggles and offshoots and tentacle-looking protuberances tend to score poorly on this measure.

Using district boundary files from the Census, I calculated compactness scores for each of the districts of the 113th Congress and mapped them so you can see where the least compact -- and likely most-gerrymandered --districts are. Click through for an interactive map, along with detailed methodological notes for the brave.





There's a lot to say about these districts, about who drew them, the factors that went into their creation and the electoral consequences. Here's a straightforward run-down of where the most- and least-gerrymandered districts are.

1. Democrats won in nine of the 10 most-gerrymandered districts. But eight out of 10 of those districts were drawn by Republicans.

This speaks to the notion that the point of gerrymandering isn't to draw yourself a safe seat but to put your opponents in safe seats by cramming all of their supporters into a small number of districts. This lets you spread your own supporters over a larger number of districts. And the way to do this is to draw outlandishly-shaped districts that bring far-flung geographic areas together. North Carolina's 12th district, which holds the title of the nation's most-gerrymandered, is a textbook example of this: It snakes from north of Greensboro, to Winston-Salem, and then all the way down to Charlotte, spanning most of the state in the process.

2. Three of the 10 most-gerrymandered districts are in North Carolina.

North Carolina Republicans really outdid themselves in 2012. In addition to the 12th district, there's the 4th, which covers Raleigh and Burlington and snakes a narrow tentacle all the way south to pick up parts of Fayetteville. And then there's the 1st District, which covers a sprawling arbitrarily shaped region in the northeastern part of the state. All three of these seats were won by Democrats in 2012.

Overall, the North Carolina GOP's efforts paid off handsomely. Based on their statewide vote share you'd expect North Carolina Democrats to hold about seven seats. But they won only four. This is because an outsized share of the state's Democratic voters were shunted off into the three highly-gerrymandered districts above.

3. Indiana and Nevada stand out as states with the least amount of gerrymandering.

In contrast to North Carolina's Republicans, Indiana's did a remarkably good job of drawing sensible district boundaries. The same holds true for Nevada's Democrats, although with only four districts, the district boundaries in Nevada are dictated to a large degree by the state's borders.

4. Maryland and North Carolina are essentially tied for the honor of most-gerrymandered state.

With average gerrymander scores of about 88 out of a possible 100, Maryland and North Carolina are home to some of the ugliest districts in the nation among states with at least three Congressional districts. In fact, North Carolina is home to three out of the top 10 most-gerrymandered districts in the country. Maryland is proof that gerrymandering isn't just a Republican pastime, as the state's Democrats redrew those boundaries in 2012. The standout in that state is the 3rd Congressional district, which is the nation's second-most gerrymandered and home to Democratic congressman John Sarbanes.

5. Republicans drew Congressional boundaries in six of the 10 most-gerrymandered states.

In addition to North Carolina, Republicans drew district boundaries in Louisiana, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Alabama. Democrats drew districts in West Virginia and Illinois, in addition to Maryland. Boundaries in Kentucky were drawn up by that state's mixed legislature.

Again, the payoff for Republicans is in the makeup of the state's delegations: In those six states, Republicans picked up about 11 more seats than you'd expect from simply looking at the parties' vote shares.

6. Gerrymandering is easier to get away with in more densely-populated areas.

You'll notice that many of the highly irregular districts are clustered around cities and metro areas. When there are more people in a given area, partisans have more leeway in how to draw their districts.

7. This is what the 10 most-gerrymandered districts look like.

For a sense of just how ridiculous gerrymandered districts look, nothing beats a visual. I've listed the 10 most gerrymandered districts below.

NORTH CAROLINA'S 12TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 97.09

MARYLAND'S 3RD DISTRICT ("The praying mantis")

Gerrymander index score: 96.79

FLORIDA'S 5TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 96.15

PENNSYLVANIA'S 7TH DISTRICT ("Goofy kicking Donald Duck")

Gerrymander index score: 96.05

NORTH CAROLINA'S 1ST DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 96.01

TEXAS'S 33RD DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 95.60

NORTH CAROLINA'S 4TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 95.16

ILLINOIS'S 4TH DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 94.96

TEXAS'S 35TH DISTRICT ("The upside-down elephant")

Gerrymander index score: 94.63

LOUISIANA'S 2ND DISTRICT

Gerrymander index score: 94.41

Want more on gerrymandering? Check out this excellent video produced by PostTV last year.


#1#There is literally proof that the DNC did...#1#

Edit, simple Google search https://www.google.com/amp/observer.com/2016/07/wikileaks-proves-primary-was-rigged-dnc-undermined-democracy/amp/



https://www.google.com/amp/observer.com/2016/07/wikileaks-proves-primary-was-rigged-dnc-undermined-democracy/amp/
WIKILEAKS PROVES PRIMARY WAS RIGGED: DNC UNDERMINED DEMOCRACY
On July 25, the Democratic National Convention will begin in Philadelphia, Pa. To commemorate the event and its embrace of corrupt politician Hillary Clinton as the Democratic nominee, Wikileaks is releasing thousands of DNC/Clinton emails.

Are you ready for Hillary? We begin our series today with 20 thousand emails from the top of the DNC. #Hillary2016 pic.twitter.com/YZbGhjTy2h — WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) July 22, 2016

In its recent leak of 20,000 DNC emails from January 2015 to May 2016, DNC staff discuss how to deal with Bernie Sanders’ popularity as a challenge to Clinton’s candidacy. #1#Instead of treating Sanders as a viable candidate for the Democratic ticket, the DNC worked against him and his campaign to ensure Clinton received the nomination.#1#

One email from DNC Deputy Communications Director Eric Walker to several DNC staffers cites two news articles showing Sanders leading in Rhode Island and the limited number of polling locations in the state: “If she outperforms this polling, the Bernie camp will go nuts and allege misconduct. They’ll probably complain regardless, actually.”

Instead of treating Sanders with impartiality, the DNC exhibits resentful disdain toward him and the thousands of disenfranchised voters he could have brought into the party.

“Wondering if there’s a good Bernie narrative for a story, which is that Bernie never ever had his act together, that his campaign was a mess,” wrote DNC Deputy Communications Director Mark Paustenbach to DNC Communications Director Luis Miranda, in response to backlash over DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz shutting off the Sanders campaign’s access to voter database files.

Another chain reveals MSNBC’s Chuck Todd and DNC staff members discussing how to discredit MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski’s call for Wasserman Schultz to resign.

Most of the emails released come from seven prominent DNC staff members: senior adviser Andrew Wright, national finance director Jordon Kaplan, finance chief of staff Scott Comer, Northern California finance director Robert Stowe, finance director of data and strategic initiatives Daniel Parrish, finance director Allen Zachary and Miranda.

The release provides further evidence the DNC broke its own charter violations by favoring Clinton as the Democratic presidential nominee, long before any votes were cast.

Over the past several weeks, Guccifer 2.0 released several internal memos showing DNC staff strategizing to make Clinton the presidential nominee—as early as March 2015. In June 2016, Florida-based law firm, Beck & Lee, filed a class action lawsuit against Wasserman Schultz and the DNC based on the revelations from these leaked files.

Other emails show DNC staff in damage control over allegations from the Sanders campaign, when a report—corroborated by a Politico—revealed the DNC’s joint fundraising committee with the Clinton campaign was laundering money to the Clinton campaign instead of fundraising for down-ticket Democrats. Regardless of the fundraising tactics, because both major campaigns didn’t agree to use the joint fundraising committee super-PAC with the DNC, the DNC should have recused itself from participating with just the Clinton campaign.

The Wikileaks and Guccifer 2.0 leaks are the perfect end to a Democratic primary that undermined democracy at every possible opportunity while maintaining plausible deniability.

The party’s rules, including the use of super delegates—who disproportionately endorsed Clinton before the primaries began—are intended to provide the Democratic Party leverage over the election process. Throughout the primaries, decisions were made by DNC officials to help Clinton build and maintain a lead over Sanders.

More votes were cast for Clinton, but they were cast at the behest of a Democratic Party that downplayed her shortfalls to the extent that Sanders not only had to run against Clinton but also against the entire Democratic Establishment. Heading into the Democratic National Convention, voters are beginning to understand that their voices are of little concern to the leadership.

SEE ALSO: WE’RE STILL WAITING ON CLINTON’S WALL STREET SPEECH TRANSCRIPTS

Note: I might have different feelings about Mr. Trump regarding other issues, but I try not to use ad hominem and neither should anyone commenting.

The basis for Mr. Trumps argument is that globalism is bad for the US economy, and therefor for US workers, since he belives in trickle down economy.

The main issue with this proposal is that #1#[the US is importing goods with a value of 700 billion USD more than it is exporting]#1#(https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/balance/c0004.html) this means, that every tax imposted by the US will have more griveous implications for the US market, since 

1. the price hike will be directly offset by price increase to the customer
2. any tax will be matched with a "countertax" matching the US' tax and therfor increasing viability of foreign made high tech goods (European products)

I dont think any smallish tax will bring jobs back where the margin for the retailer in the US is above 1.5 ish to double the imposed tax right now, which is likely a lot. The  costs to get production started in markeds that are already settled is too much of a risk, given the possibility of a total revision of this plan in 4 years. No one is investing millions into production facilities without the prospect of a secure investment for a long time and a fast return on their money. Which is nothing that can be guaranteed given that exporting said products will be equally complicated because of the "countertax".

While I see that the US- market is vast, I dont see the possibility for more a self- sufficient marked given the circumstances of dependence on chinese raw products for *all* high tech products (Speaking with personal experience, working for a global player in chemistry) 

overall I assume that the market will react badly to price hikes for the consumer in driving the devide between those who can affort it and those who cannot even further instead of making it smaller.

I can see the US market react badly to both tax on their products (by other nations) and to US imposed tax on foreign products on which the consumer and the economy depend on while being competitive. 

This will lead to factories who operate on smallish margins ( car manufacturing suppliers ) going out of buisness if they are dependent on any foreign made product or raw materials. Which will lead to a greater dependence on foreign made products by default, the exact opposite of the intended result.


Obviously there are ways to impose selective tax on foreign products, but this does not ensure that foreign countries will limit their tax as well. If one party is starting a trade war, I would assume other parties will not just watch while their economy hurts.

Change my view. 

_____

> *Hello, users of CMV! This is a footnote from your moderators. We'd just like to remind you of a couple of things. Firstly, please remember to* ***[read through our rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/rules)***. *If you see a comment that has broken one, it is more effective to report it than downvote it. Speaking of which,* ***[downvotes don't change views](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/guidelines#wiki_upvoting.2Fdownvoting)****! If you are thinking about submitting a CMV yourself, please have a look through our* ***[popular topics wiki](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/populartopics)*** *first. Any questions or concerns? Feel free to* ***[message us](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/changemyview)***. *Happy CMVing!*



https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/balance/c0004.html
U.S. TRADE WITH WORLD, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED
Trade in Goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted

Available years:

2017 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2017 127,130.9 195,351.7 -68,220.8 February 2017 127,438.2 191,832.9 -64,394.6 March 2017 127,013.1 191,936.6 -64,923.4 April 2017 126,673.5 193,780.7 -67,107.3 May 2017 126,810.3 193,091.9 -66,281.6 June 2017 128,954.1 192,893.8 -63,939.7 July 2017 128,593.2 192,415.2 -63,821.9 August 2017 128,254.7 191,986.2 -63,731.5 September 2017 130,334.3 194,446.5 -64,112.2 TOTAL 2017 #1#1,151,202.4 1,737,735.5#1# -586,533.1



2016 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2016 116,209.6 179,116.7 -62,907.2 February 2016 118,692.3 182,966.9 -64,274.6 March 2016 117,603.6 174,256.4 -56,652.8 April 2016 119,179.3 177,025.7 -57,846.4 May 2016 119,467.3 180,263.1 -60,795.9 June 2016 120,392.4 184,097.0 -63,704.6 July 2016 122,011.3 183,125.2 -61,114.0 August 2016 123,537.6 183,573.4 -60,035.8 September 2016 124,282.1 182,637.6 -58,355.5 October 2016 122,360.9 184,350.2 -61,989.3 November 2016 121,204.5 186,884.5 -65,680.0 December 2016 126,069.9 189,508.1 -63,438.2 TOTAL 2016 1,451,010.7 2,187,804.9 -736,794.2



2015 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2015 128,127.9 190,913.9 -62,786.0 February 2015 126,664.6 184,095.7 -57,431.1 March 2015 127,161.7 197,354.6 -70,192.9 April 2015 128,970.7 190,263.5 -61,292.8 May 2015 127,475.8 187,840.2 -60,364.4 June 2015 126,790.2 190,021.4 -63,231.2 July 2015 126,836.8 187,417.7 -60,580.8 August 2015 123,595.3 187,780.9 -64,185.6 September 2015 124,500.6 186,049.2 -61,548.5 October 2015 122,200.5 183,774.4 -61,573.9 November 2015 120,940.9 181,577.1 -60,636.1 December 2015 119,836.4 181,094.7 -61,258.3 TOTAL 2015 1,503,101.5 2,248,183.2 -745,081.8



2014 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2014 132,514.1 192,185.6 -59,671.6 February 2014 132,139.0 193,313.9 -61,174.9 March 2014 136,236.1 198,397.9 -62,161.9 April 2014 134,918.5 200,025.3 -65,106.8 May 2014 136,412.6 198,237.1 -61,824.5 June 2014 135,963.5 196,110.4 -60,147.0 July 2014 136,452.1 196,733.1 -60,281.0 August 2014 137,357.1 195,646.9 -58,289.8 September 2014 134,635.2 196,867.5 -62,232.3 October 2014 136,752.8 197,659.7 -60,907.0 November 2014 134,748.5 194,611.8 -59,863.3 December 2014 133,744.4 196,566.8 -62,822.5 TOTAL 2014 1,621,873.8 2,356,356.1 -734,482.3



2013 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2013 129,892.3 189,809.3 -59,916.9 February 2013 131,929.4 192,655.3 -60,725.9 March 2013 129,195.5 183,966.7 -54,771.1 April 2013 130,640.6 188,166.4 -57,525.7 May 2013 129,517.2 190,945.6 -61,428.5 June 2013 132,138.7 186,853.7 -54,715.0 July 2013 130,855.3 187,817.1 -56,961.8 August 2013 131,165.1 188,180.4 -57,015.3 September 2013 130,593.7 191,294.9 -60,701.1 October 2013 134,237.6 191,086.9 -56,849.4 November 2013 134,981.2 189,221.4 -54,240.3 December 2013 133,370.2 187,989.1 -54,618.9 TOTAL 2013 1,578,516.9 2,267,986.7 -689,469.9



2012 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2012 125,888.0 191,550.7 -65,662.7 February 2012 127,269.7 186,726.5 -59,456.8 March 2012 130,489.1 196,615.4 -66,126.3 April 2012 129,049.1 192,329.3 -63,280.2 May 2012 129,327.7 191,026.6 -61,698.9 June 2012 129,422.5 188,829.8 -59,407.3 July 2012 128,698.0 187,644.6 -58,946.6 August 2012 127,030.2 187,209.2 -60,179.0 September 2012 132,192.6 188,747.9 -56,555.3 October 2012 126,280.5 185,822.3 -59,541.7 November 2012 128,357.1 192,148.3 -63,791.2 December 2012 131,816.4 187,616.7 -55,800.3 TOTAL 2012 1,545,820.8 2,276,267.1 -730,446.3



2011 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2011 117,337.0 178,698.0 -61,361.0 February 2011 115,705.0 174,228.0 -58,523.0 March 2011 122,617.0 181,256.0 -58,639.0 April 2011 124,393.0 181,060.0 -56,667.0 May 2011 123,588.0 185,321.0 -61,733.0 June 2011 121,316.0 185,391.0 -64,075.0 July 2011 125,104.0 185,822.0 -60,718.0 August 2011 125,120.0 185,727.0 -60,607.0 September 2011 127,409.0 185,718.0 -58,309.0 October 2011 127,268.0 186,685.0 -59,417.0 November 2011 125,713.0 187,195.0 -61,482.0 December 2011 126,937.0 190,853.0 -63,916.0 TOTAL 2011 1,482,507.0 2,207,954.0 -725,447.0



2010 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2010 98,302.0 146,808.0 -48,506.0 February 2010 99,555.0 150,520.0 -50,965.0 March 2010 103,530.0 153,982.0 -50,452.0 April 2010 102,397.0 153,706.0 -51,309.0 May 2010 105,517.0 158,128.0 -52,611.0 June 2010 104,494.0 162,202.0 -57,708.0 July 2010 107,246.0 159,664.0 -52,418.0 August 2010 107,428.0 164,528.0 -57,100.0 September 2010 107,734.0 163,835.0 -56,101.0 October 2010 112,730.0 165,302.0 -52,572.0 November 2010 113,521.0 164,893.0 -51,372.0 December 2010 116,039.0 170,290.0 -54,251.0 TOTAL 2010 1,278,493.0 1,913,858.0 -635,365.0



2009 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2009 82,415.0 129,116.0 -46,701.0 February 2009 84,903.0 121,807.0 -36,904.0 March 2009 83,500.0 121,885.0 -38,385.0 April 2009 81,088.0 120,572.0 -39,484.0 May 2009 83,369.0 118,736.0 -35,367.0 June 2009 85,737.0 122,156.0 -36,419.0 July 2009 87,833.0 129,912.0 -42,079.0 August 2009 87,767.0 128,770.0 -41,003.0 September 2009 91,673.0 136,267.0 -44,594.0 October 2009 94,829.0 139,309.0 -44,480.0 November 2009 94,635.0 143,475.0 -48,840.0 December 2009 98,293.0 147,620.0 -49,327.0 TOTAL 2009 1,056,042.0 1,559,625.0 -503,583.0



2008 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2008 104,441.0 175,412.0 -70,971.0 February 2008 107,512.0 179,496.0 -71,984.0 March 2008 105,976.0 175,126.0 -69,150.0 April 2008 110,383.0 182,776.0 -72,393.0 May 2008 110,828.0 183,767.0 -72,939.0 June 2008 115,784.0 186,963.0 -71,179.0 July 2008 118,309.0 194,334.0 -76,025.0 August 2008 116,219.0 186,261.0 -70,042.0 September 2008 107,172.0 175,833.0 -68,661.0 October 2008 105,006.0 174,067.0 -69,061.0 November 2008 97,819.0 150,372.0 -52,553.0 December 2008 87,992.0 139,234.0 -51,242.0 TOTAL 2008 1,287,441.0 2,103,641.0 -816,200.0



2007 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2007 90,847.0 156,000.0 -65,153.0 February 2007 88,931.0 155,097.0 -66,166.0 March 2007 92,877.0 161,806.0 -68,929.0 April 2007 92,573.0 159,655.0 -67,082.0 May 2007 94,330.0 161,050.0 -66,720.0 June 2007 95,344.0 163,137.0 -67,793.0 July 2007 95,773.0 163,679.0 -67,906.0 August 2007 97,552.0 163,444.0 -65,892.0 September 2007 98,065.0 164,883.0 -66,818.0 October 2007 99,509.0 166,868.0 -67,359.0 November 2007 100,798.0 171,602.0 -70,804.0 December 2007 101,598.0 169,741.0 -68,143.0 TOTAL 2007 1,148,197.0 1,956,962.0 -808,765.0



2006 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2006 80,555.0 152,919.0 -72,364.0 February 2006 81,535.0 148,596.0 -67,061.0 March 2006 83,299.0 150,759.0 -67,460.0 April 2006 83,188.0 151,278.0 -68,090.0 May 2006 84,593.0 154,996.0 -70,403.0 June 2006 86,432.0 155,279.0 -68,847.0 July 2006 84,328.0 156,232.0 -71,904.0 August 2006 86,715.0 159,838.0 -73,123.0 September 2006 87,510.0 157,913.0 -70,403.0 October 2006 88,264.0 153,411.0 -65,147.0 November 2006 89,566.0 154,406.0 -64,840.0 December 2006 89,984.0 158,312.0 -68,328.0 TOTAL 2006 1,025,969.0 1,853,939.0 -827,970.0



2005 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2005 71,669.0 132,065.0 -60,396.0 February 2005 72,184.8 134,921.0 -62,736.2 March 2005 72,793.3 130,902.0 -58,108.7 April 2005 75,490.2 137,129.0 -61,638.8 May 2005 75,073.9 135,665.0 -60,591.1 June 2005 74,950.1 137,614.0 -62,663.9 July 2005 74,688.4 137,423.0 -62,734.6 August 2005 76,214.7 139,189.0 -62,974.3 September 2005 74,227.5 143,958.0 -69,730.5 October 2005 76,236.2 148,676.0 -72,439.8 November 2005 77,744.5 146,650.0 -68,905.5 December 2005 79,809.2 149,264.0 -69,454.8 TOTAL 2005 901,081.8 1,673,456.0 -772,374.2



2004 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2004 62,693.0 110,890.0 -48,197.0 February 2004 65,852.5 113,977.0 -48,124.5 March 2004 67,871.0 118,678.0 -50,807.0 April 2004 67,069.9 118,542.0 -51,472.1 May 2004 68,677.4 120,671.0 -51,993.6 June 2004 66,378.4 124,355.0 -57,976.6 July 2004 67,645.8 122,979.0 -55,333.2 August 2004 68,131.7 124,224.0 -56,092.3 September 2004 69,592.3 124,400.0 -54,807.7 October 2004 70,167.6 128,810.0 -58,642.4 November 2004 69,283.5 131,867.0 -62,583.5 December 2004 71,511.4 130,310.0 -58,798.6 TOTAL 2004 814,874.5 1,469,703.0 -654,828.5



2003 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2003 58,068.0 102,284.0 -44,216.0 February 2003 58,846.0 101,719.0 -42,873.0 March 2003 59,077.0 105,340.0 -46,263.0 April 2003 58,573.0 103,175.0 -44,602.0 May 2003 58,314.0 102,613.0 -44,299.0 June 2003 60,582.0 103,398.0 -42,816.0 July 2003 60,696.0 105,082.0 -44,386.0 August 2003 59,170.0 101,990.0 -42,820.0 September 2003 61,041.0 105,721.0 -44,680.0 October 2003 62,203.0 107,040.0 -44,837.0 November 2003 64,665.0 107,742.0 -43,077.0 December 2003 63,536.0 111,017.0 -47,481.0 TOTAL 2003 724,771.0 1,257,121.0 -532,350.0



2002 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2002 55,939.0 89,443.0 -33,504.0 February 2002 55,717.0 91,539.0 -35,822.0 March 2002 55,925.0 91,447.0 -35,522.0 April 2002 57,958.0 95,972.0 -38,014.0 May 2002 58,182.0 96,395.0 -38,213.0 June 2002 58,772.0 97,848.0 -39,076.0 July 2002 59,129.0 97,197.0 -38,068.0 August 2002 59,173.0 99,721.0 -40,548.0 September 2002 58,639.0 99,364.0 -40,725.0 October 2002 58,066.0 96,860.0 -38,794.0 November 2002 58,815.0 102,120.0 -43,305.0 December 2002 56,789.0 103,460.0 -46,671.0 TOTAL 2002 693,104.0 1,161,366.0 -468,262.0



2001 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2001 65,869.0 105,470.0 -39,601.0 February 2001 66,114.0 100,350.0 -34,236.0 March 2001 64,350.0 101,853.0 -37,503.0 April 2001 62,805.0 98,164.0 -35,359.0 May 2001 63,772.0 95,150.0 -31,378.0 June 2001 61,102.0 94,978.0 -33,876.0 July 2001 59,298.0 93,680.0 -34,382.0 August 2001 59,648.0 92,569.0 -32,921.0 September 2001 56,375.0 90,957.0 -34,582.0 October 2001 56,987.0 91,322.0 -34,335.0 November 2001 56,711.0 89,979.0 -33,268.0 December 2001 56,069.0 86,527.0 -30,458.0 TOTAL 2001 729,100.0 1,140,999.0 -411,899.0



2000 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 2000 62,543.0 93,900.0 -31,357.0 February 2000 62,409.0 95,901.0 -33,492.0 March 2000 63,135.0 99,176.0 -36,041.0 April 2000 63,814.0 99,242.0 -35,428.0 May 2000 63,632.0 99,651.0 -36,019.0 June 2000 65,997.0 103,019.0 -37,022.0 July 2000 65,711.0 103,349.0 -37,638.0 August 2000 67,763.0 103,665.0 -35,902.0 September 2000 67,562.0 106,396.0 -38,834.0 October 2000 66,845.0 106,056.0 -39,211.0 November 2000 66,691.0 103,993.0 -37,302.0 December 2000 65,816.0 103,673.0 -37,857.0 TOTAL 2000 781,918.0 1,218,021.0 -436,103.0



1999 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1999 56,272.0 77,781.0 -21,509.0 February 1999 55,522.0 79,842.0 -24,320.0 March 1999 55,749.0 79,569.0 -23,820.0 April 1999 56,546.0 80,801.0 -24,255.0 May 1999 56,502.0 83,200.0 -26,698.0 June 1999 56,420.0 85,868.0 -29,448.0 July 1999 57,269.0 87,186.0 -29,917.0 August 1999 58,713.0 87,837.0 -29,124.0 September 1999 60,053.0 88,512.0 -28,459.0 October 1999 60,037.0 89,923.0 -29,886.0 November 1999 60,206.0 90,984.0 -30,778.0 December 1999 62,509.0 93,115.0 -30,606.0 TOTAL 1999 695,798.0 1,024,618.0 -328,820.0



1998 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1998 58,296.0 74,523.0 -16,227.0 February 1998 57,456.0 74,184.0 -16,728.0 March 1998 57,814.0 76,369.0 -18,555.0 April 1998 56,014.0 76,350.0 -20,336.0 May 1998 55,986.0 76,492.0 -20,506.0 June 1998 56,145.0 74,911.0 -18,766.0 July 1998 55,477.0 74,594.0 -19,117.0 August 1998 55,081.0 75,707.0 -20,626.0 September 1998 56,324.0 76,107.0 -19,783.0 October 1998 58,131.0 77,880.0 -19,749.0 November 1998 58,424.0 77,912.0 -19,488.0 December 1998 56,989.0 76,867.0 -19,878.0 TOTAL 1998 682,137.0 911,896.0 -229,759.0



1997 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1997 52,904.0 69,846.0 -16,942.0 February 1997 55,077.0 70,131.0 -15,054.0 March 1997 56,931.0 70,023.0 -13,092.0 April 1997 57,365.0 71,262.0 -13,897.0 May 1997 57,500.0 72,137.0 -14,637.0 June 1997 58,289.0 71,658.0 -13,369.0 July 1997 59,590.0 73,330.0 -13,740.0 August 1997 58,251.0 73,623.0 -15,372.0 September 1997 58,605.0 74,408.0 -15,803.0 October 1997 58,765.0 74,641.0 -15,876.0 November 1997 57,657.0 73,588.0 -15,931.0 December 1997 58,247.0 75,056.0 -16,809.0 TOTAL 1997 689,181.0 869,703.0 -180,522.0



1996 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1996 50,275.0 63,825.0 -13,550.0 February 1996 51,625.0 63,519.0 -11,894.0 March 1996 50,901.0 63,806.0 -12,905.0 April 1996 51,351.0 64,459.0 -13,108.0 May 1996 52,012.0 66,464.0 -14,452.0 June 1996 52,114.0 66,087.0 -13,973.0 July 1996 51,330.0 66,253.0 -14,923.0 August 1996 52,521.0 67,329.0 -14,808.0 September 1996 52,264.0 68,080.0 -15,816.0 October 1996 53,474.0 67,423.0 -13,949.0 November 1996 54,123.0 68,364.0 -14,241.0 December 1996 53,087.0 69,681.0 -16,594.0 TOTAL 1996 625,077.0 795,290.0 -170,213.0



1995 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1995 46,256.0 60,492.0 -14,236.0 February 1995 46,597.0 59,836.0 -13,239.0 March 1995 48,259.0 61,390.0 -13,131.0 April 1995 47,684.0 62,557.0 -14,873.0 May 1995 48,405.0 62,311.0 -13,906.0 June 1995 48,271.0 62,698.0 -14,427.0 July 1995 48,097.0 62,479.0 -14,382.0 August 1995 49,309.0 62,042.0 -12,733.0 September 1995 50,640.0 62,845.0 -12,205.0 October 1995 50,133.0 62,028.0 -11,895.0 November 1995 50,259.0 62,138.0 -11,879.0 December 1995 50,832.0 62,727.0 -11,895.0 TOTAL 1995 584,742.0 743,543.0 -158,801.0



1994 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1994 39,843.0 50,027.0 -10,184.0 February 1994 38,293.0 50,399.0 -12,106.0 March 1994 42,487.0 52,267.0 -9,780.0 April 1994 41,251.0 52,936.0 -11,685.0 May 1994 41,379.0 53,830.0 -12,451.0 June 1994 42,850.0 55,731.0 -12,881.0 July 1994 41,955.0 56,096.0 -14,141.0 August 1994 44,377.0 57,396.0 -13,019.0 September 1994 44,002.0 57,640.0 -13,638.0 October 1994 44,203.0 57,950.0 -13,747.0 November 1994 45,042.0 59,778.0 -14,736.0 December 1994 46,945.0 59,204.0 -12,259.0 TOTAL 1994 512,627.0 663,254.0 -150,627.0



1993 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1993 37,616.0 45,495.0 -7,879.0 February 1993 37,064.0 45,102.0 -8,038.0 March 1993 39,027.0 48,969.0 -9,942.0 April 1993 38,717.0 48,573.0 -9,856.0 May 1993 39,592.0 47,942.0 -8,350.0 June 1993 37,932.0 49,189.0 -11,257.0 July 1993 37,422.0 48,112.0 -10,690.0 August 1993 37,833.0 47,901.0 -10,068.0 September 1993 38,413.0 49,083.0 -10,670.0 October 1993 40,006.0 50,820.0 -10,814.0 November 1993 40,049.0 49,939.0 -9,890.0 December 1993 41,420.0 49,534.0 -8,114.0 TOTAL 1993 465,091.0 580,659.0 -115,568.0



1992 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1992 35,403.7 41,809.5 -6,405.8 February 1992 37,702.1 41,370.6 -3,668.5 March 1992 37,208.1 42,681.2 -5,473.1 April 1992 36,558.4 43,398.8 -6,840.4 May 1992 36,012.0 43,954.1 -7,942.1 June 1992 38,356.1 44,954.1 -6,598.0 July 1992 37,501.9 44,989.4 -7,487.5 August 1992 36,444.8 45,466.5 -9,021.7 September 1992 37,469.5 45,670.9 -8,201.4 October 1992 38,931.7 46,159.5 -7,227.8 November 1992 37,744.3 45,971.2 -8,226.9 December 1992 38,830.9 46,238.6 -7,407.7 TOTAL 1992 448,163.5 532,664.4 -84,500.9



1991 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1991 34,290.0 41,282.2 -6,992.2 February 1991 33,637.2 39,411.9 -5,774.7 March 1991 34,411.7 38,896.7 -4,485.0 April 1991 35,302.6 39,769.4 -4,466.8 May 1991 35,109.7 40,256.0 -5,146.3 June 1991 34,926.2 39,842.7 -4,916.5 July 1991 34,870.5 40,413.4 -5,542.9 August 1991 34,856.3 40,901.9 -6,045.6 September 1991 35,158.6 41,488.2 -6,329.6 October 1991 36,655.5 42,461.9 -5,806.4 November 1991 37,085.3 41,653.4 -4,568.1 December 1991 35,619.3 41,795.0 -6,175.7 TOTAL 1991 421,922.9 488,172.7 -66,249.8



1990 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1990 31,613.2 41,380.4 -9,767.2 February 1990 31,709.6 39,164.4 -7,454.8 March 1990 33,187.4 41,830.0 -8,642.6 April 1990 32,044.4 39,796.9 -7,752.5 May 1990 32,511.2 40,599.8 -8,088.6 June 1990 33,695.9 40,687.0 -6,991.1 July 1990 32,307.7 41,315.8 -9,008.1 August 1990 32,557.2 41,795.6 -9,238.4 September 1990 32,311.6 41,343.8 -9,032.2 October 1990 34,492.6 43,875.5 -9,382.9 November 1990 33,581.1 43,066.4 -9,485.3 December 1990 33,800.3 39,986.1 -6,185.8 TOTAL 1990 393,812.2 494,841.7 -101,029.5



1989 : U.S. trade in goods with World, Seasonally Adjusted NOTE: All figures are in millions of U.S. dollars on a nominal basis, not seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Details may not equal totals due to rounding. Table reflects only those months for which there was trade. Month Exports Imports Balance January 1989 28,380.8 37,513.2 -9,132.4 February 1989 28,494.0 38,561.7 -10,067.7 March 1989 30,659.3 39,724.7 -9,065.4 April 1989 30,569.2 38,664.7 -8,095.5 May 1989 30,689.5 40,909.6 -10,220.1 June 1989 31,295.3 39,780.9 -8,485.6 July 1989 29,933.6 38,951.3 -9,017.7 August 1989 30,167.5 40,117.3 -9,949.8 September 1989 30,414.6 39,232.9 -8,818.3 October 1989 31,159.6 40,961.2 -9,801.6 November 1989 30,526.0 40,429.0 -9,903.0 December 1989 31,522.0 38,364.0 -6,842.0 TOTAL 1989 363,811.4 473,210.5 -109,399.1



Additional Information

DOWNLOAD: Download the full dataset for all countries[EXCEL - 5 MB]

