CMV: HEARTHSTONE IS A BAD CARD GAME
OP
ID: 5c7a1i
Author: MMFQ_BLAZED

0

So I love hearthstone but it isn't a good card game. Randomness is fine but hearthstone takes it to the extreme. The game is just too random to be competitive and with each expansion the game gets worse and worse. Their are 102 cards that have random effects of the 922 cards currently in hearthstone. That may not seem like that many but of the 102 random cards many are vanilla or legendaries and are always in the meta. The random effects can completely change the outcome of games even from an almost unloose-able position. 

Standard is just the same net decks vs other net decks that counter other net decks and at this point it has just become which expansion buffs a class to an overpowered status and ruins the game for a few weeks until the meta settles and counters are created unless it is face shaman then even the counters can loose if they draw bad or have a miss-play. To me the funnest parts of card games are not winning but to make cool decks and refine them but as hearthstone is now if you do that you wont make it past rank 8 at best and that was with a 40% win rate vs zoo. 

Arena is basically unplayable (still play it almost every time i get 150 gold) due to the complete randomness and mage being vastly overpowered even after the patch. Fire lands portal still drops more than most other removals (anecdotal) and mage has more cards to get removal than any other class. after playing arena nonstop I only have 3, 12 win games and 2 are with mage with medium level drafts and rogue with a godly draft (3 backstabs 2 legendaries) The patch did help out some classes but it didn't do enough to curb the mage infestation and you are basically playing mage vs mage at 9 wins or above most of the time and that just comes down to playing minions on curve and who has more removal. Arena was more skillful in the past expansions and was more even.

I guess ill give some cred to myself  (Names on ladder in legend MMFQ BLAZED, Zata, and a barcode account i had from SC2) - Legend season 1-3 with alterations to freeze mage and miracle rogue (stopped with miracle rogue after nerf). Legend with mech mage in LOE. Kinda stopped trying to hit legend since then as it takes too much time and all you need is 51% win rate and enough time to waste.

I love HS but it has just been net deck vs net deck since the start where in other card games like magic there are so many different types of decks that you can make that meta isn't really an issue. It may be unfair to compare them but they are both card games and have similar premises. It has just become so tedious that I feel like even when the meta changes nothing really new happens just the same alterations on preexisting net decks. Only when c'thun was added did I feel like there was some shakeup but that was settled quickly by the best c'thun net decks reaching reddit and exploding on the ladder. There isn't enough variety in cards to have enough counters where they become irrelevant and a deck beats a deck because of the players skill and strategy vs cookie cutter meta decks that counter cookie cutter decks.

I may have dragged this on a bit too far but I hope someone changes my view because I really want to enjoy HS again.

-------

