CMV: BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE LOST THE ELECTION.
ID: d9u70fd
Author: TezzMuffins

0

I used a post like this elsewhere on another Bernie CMV, I will borrow wholesale from that other answer of mine because I believe it applies here.

If Hillary had chosen Bernie as her running mate, or if Bernie was the nominee and would have chosen Hillary as his running mate, they would have won, and would have made that choice if they had fully realized they would be losing the older white "union" voters to Trump. Bernie AND Hillary pulled a lot of punches in the primary, Bernie especially about Hillary's emails (Hillary could not push Bernie on socialism because that strategy would not inspire the socialists in her coalition she would need to defeat Trump), and that would have lent itself nicely to a joint ticket because they wouldn't seem like they would have to be betraying their own pride to run with the other.

If you look at an electoral map and look at demographics, that the states Bernie pulled in the primary were states that Hillary was relying on most crucially to win the electoral college. States such as Wisconsin, Michigan, Iowa, New Hampshire, and the central West-Virginia-esque parts of Pennsylvania. These were white voters concerned with rising inequality and the idea that the economy was not working for them, the same voters who used Trump as a vehicle for a protest vote.

Furthermore, there is no reason why Bernie would be weaker with black voters in states like Ohio, North Carolina, and Florida than Tim Kaine, who has absolutely no power to change a vote in any state by force of personality except Virginia. Either Hillary uses the Clinton brand as VP to push black support for a Bernie-Hillary ticket, or Hillary herself touts Bernie's history of pushing for civil rights on the stump. There is not one single black voter I know who actually knows about Kaine's history as a lawyer, but some do know about Bernie's past, especially because the primary gained him name recognition. He fought hard for Civil Rights.

The most successful attack line Trump used on Hillary was her credibility, using emails as the vehicle. Bernie has this characteristic in spades, whereas Kaine all along was seen as an operator Hillary kept close to her inner circle.

I think there is hard enough evidence to make a reasonable conclusion that a Hillary-Bernie ticket, in either permutation, would have won Michigan, Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and the District in Maine, enough states to win the election, and had kept it close in Iowa, Ohio, and Indiana. There is absolutely no way that Trump makes a more credible play at union voters who voted for Obama than Bernie would. Obama won Iowa by 10% when he ran, and Hillary lost it by 10%, because of THESE voters. Also Democrats have success in elections where they can fall in love with their candidate. The fact that Bernie was an outsider and had an unassailable past from an issues and morals standpoint is crucial to driving turnout.

-------

