CMV: READING BOOKS IS VIRTUALLY POINTLESS.
ID: d9u2vxa
Author: ShouldersofGiants100

0

Books are probably the best medium where a creator is able to interact with a consumer. By their nature, books have a very limited flow of information. As a reader, you ONLY see what's on the page. Truely great authors can use that fact to subvert your expectation. A TV show can't put you inside the head of a character, for one thing. That creates a level of understanding that is otherwise hard to convey. This also limits their ability to toy with the perspective of a reader. I'm extremely partial to fantasy novels and most of the good ones actively engage the reader into a certain thought process as a way to trick them, deepening the impact. One example, fairly basic, is in a series called the Wheel of Time. There are creatures in the series called Grey Men that are effectively impossible to detect because they are utterly ordinary, to the point that eyes slide right over them. Why do I bring it up? Because they don't just have this effect on the characters, they have it on the READERS. When they appear, a throwaway line will mention an ordinary looking guy entering the room. Fluff detail, esaily skimmed over. Then half a page later the character is fighting for their life and the reader is experiencing something of the same "Where the hell did THAT come from?" reaction. This same thing can happen in much larger scales. You might spend entire books thinking a character or a group is evil or good or whatever the author wants you to think they are only to have your perspective COMPLETELY changed. 

It goes beyond the author putting their thoughts on the page. The author is deliberately putting the readers through the same changes that the characters are experiencing. Quite aside from how enjoyable it can be to get THAT immersed in a world, it can also be a way to approach broader topics from a different angle. There are books that make the tyrant sympathetic, the hero shallow, that make you sympathize with terrible people or hate people who have objectively done nothing to deserve it. Being forced to consider these kinds of things in a context where you have built up investment is going to do a lot more to help you consider the complexity than just being given the problem. There's a reason that when thinkers try to explain their reasoning, they use stories as examples. This is that just with more freedom for the reader to believe as they will. 

-------

