CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9urmgg
Author: ChickenDelight

0

> Obama was never condescending and rude in 2008. His message was about positive change and unity, not about demeaning people and saying "never McCain". If I recall correctly, he got a great voter turnout.

First, let's just settle on what the framework is here.  Trump is the guy that just got elected, and his message had ZERO positivity in it.  Go watch literally any of Reagan speeches, then compare them to literally any Trump speech.  Just pick two at random on youtube.  Reagan bashed the government, bashed democrats, bemoaned social decay.... but there's an inherent optimism in them, always.  Similar to Obama's speeches in that sense.  Trump's speeches lack that *entirely.*  Seriously, don't take my word for it, go watch them yourself, it's an obvious difference.  Hillary might not have run a big "morning in America" campaign, but it was generally positive, at least in what she said publicly (and, FWIW, if she had been more positive, she would have been mocked as a Pollyanna).  Trump, meanwhile, ran a campaign on a theme of nihilism and division, *gleefully* demeaning people and behaving rudely almost nonstop... and won.

Second, liberals didn't start the "Never Trump" movement: well-meaning, genuine, thoughtful conservatives did.  Neither of the two living Republican ex-Presidents voted for him, none of the previous Republican Secretaries of State, etc., etc., etc.  There are lots of Republicans I personally like and respect, not one of them endorsed him.  That's where "Never Trump" came from, democrats repeated the phrase occasionally to remind Republicans that even *their own elder statesmen* weren't voting for this guy.

So, the point you're getting at, and the reason for it, is this: Trump was treated harshly compared to previous candidates, for good reason.  **Trump is not the same as McCain, or Romney, or Dubya, or even Cruz, Rubio, Jeb!, or Kasich... or, for that matter, Hillary, Sanders, or Webb.**  This is changing gears a little bit, but it gets us to the real reason Trump was able to win this election: false equivalence.

Trump is, by all outward appearances: a compulsive liar, a megalomaniac, a conspiracy-peddler, amoral in his personal life and professional dealings, openly authoritarian with an affection for a number of foreign dictators, with far-reaching and highly questionable financial ties which he has kept secret, and demonstrable ignorance about a range of issues, even very basic ones, which he will face - in addition to being the first President *ever* with zero experience in government or the military.  That's without even touching on racism or immigration or misogyny or assault allegations or any of that.  He literally has too many *major* scandals to even list concisely.

When this is pointed out, you can't complain that Trump is being treated unfairly compared past nominees, Democrat or Republican.  Pointing those flaws out is treating him *exactly the same as any other nominee.*  It's the vetting process which is supposed to occur.  It is harsh, but simply saying that he is a far, far more flawed candidate (and now, President-elect) than anyone in either party that has come before is simply being honest, and therefore completely fair.

Complaining that that is condescending and rude is asking to be treated with kid gloves.  I can't think of any better example of "talking down" to someone than ignoring obvious flaws in their arguments.  You can't complain that liberals are being condescending, and then ask them to avoid stating uncomfortable truths to you.  Incidentally, that's the opposite of what conservatives used to pride themselves on - being the hard realists who were willing to speak unpleasant truths.

Which gets back to my main point.  This isn't about smugness or condescension or shaming, at least not for me.   This is about false equivalence, asking that liberals pretend that Trump is basically the same as any other Republican.  He's clearly not, and pretending otherwise is absurd.

Your real complaint strikes me as simply the fact that Trump faces an exceptional intensity of opposition.  But that ignores the fact that there are plenty of legitimate reasons to be far more intense in opposing Trump than any previous Republican candidate - and plenty of people in the Republican party agree with me on that.

edit:  alright, all done editing.  That's a long, rambling reply, take from it what you will.
edit 2:  I did some more editing, I'm a liar.

-------

