CMV: TRUMP SUPPORTERS WILL STAND BY TRUMP REGARDLESS HOW MANY PROMISES HE BREAKS
ID: d9uh7n0
Author: DattAshe

0

I'll jump in here and give a different viewpoint. Note I am a (very) reluctant Trump voter so I'm in the demographic of people who the polls didn't catch and who the MSM and other predictive organizations completely dismissed or didn't understand. 


I voted Trump because Hillary was promising more of the same. Her track record is pockmarked with questionable decisions and what seemed to be to be blatant disrespect for a giant swath of Americans. She essentially promised to bring those ignorant rednecks into the new future (paraphrase). Her stance on the 2nd amendment is terrifying (one of the major factors in the rise of fascism was disarming the populace so the military could take over). She did things anyone with a security clearance will tell you would have sent them to jail and then her cronies in power just whitewashed the whole thing. What I saw and read was that the people in power know whats good for you so shut up and get in line.


Trump's mouth wrote a lot of checks his ass can't cash. The wall won't be built and mass deportations will be expensive and difficult to achieve. But reasonable restrictions on immigration with background checks and accountability for people entering this country is a good thing. Most countries (including Australia, Canada and the entire EU) have fairly strict immigration policies. The USA is worse. The system is too slow and extremely cumbersome to navigate, it takes generally more than 5 years to attain citizenship for extremely qualified people. A revamp to that system which includes logical safeguards against letting just anyone in but still allowing the system to work and  bring in people who want to be here and be productive is absolutely necessary. If Trump fails to work towards a better system in this right, he will absolutely lose my support. 


Healthcare in this country is FUBAR. Things like aspirin at the hospital costing $400 is ridiculous. The ACA was instituted against the will of the people and established MORE red tape and more restrictions driving the cost to operate a medical practice through the roof and limiting the insurance options and portfolios available. This had the predictable outcome of driving up insurance costs and limiting medical service availability. When these things happened Democrats say, "see, wee need single payer." This, to me, was blatantly disrespectful. The system wasn't good but you broke it in order to push a system you think is better. Do people with pre-existing conditions need access to health insurance? Absolutely. Should young adults not yet acclimated to the working world be allowed to stay on their parents' plans? Absolutely. But, these are things that can be accomplished without attaching 200,000 pages of regulations and forms to fill out and new naming schemes that need to be followed. If Trump doesn't make progressive steps forward in making healthcare actually affordable, he will absolutely lose my support. 


If Trumps foreign policy goes 100% isolationist, he loses my support. If Trump spends his time fighting against LGBT and writing laws that discriminate instead of laws that help, he loses my support. The exit polls (which are obviously flawed) stated that of Trump voters 63% said he wasn't qualified for the job. People who voted for him didn't do it because they love white america, and hate gays, minorities, and women (admittedly some probably did, but definitely not a majority). Asking why we voted for a sexist, racist, homophobe is more of the same. Ignoring the fact that Hillary had her set of flaws and claiming everyone who voted for trump is sexist, racist and homophobic and is #whitepower is not realizing that there were lots of other issues at hand. And if Trump doesn't do something and is more of the same, you can bet your ass I'll vote him out first chance I get. 

-------

