CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u7ge4
Author: ANEPICLIE

0

Regardless of how upstanding a citizen you might be otherwise, Trump has said a laundry list of deplorable things about various minorities, women and political opponents. His allies also preach such things as gay conversion therapy.

It is clear that you have a much more significant emphasis on the economic conservatism rather than the rest.

However, for better or for worse, by supporting Trump you also find yourself associated with all the deplorable things he's said.

For many people, his xenophobic rhetoric and that of his supporters is offensive and frightening on a very visceral level, so much so that they consider it even a threat to their continued existence. This isn't to say necessarily in the literal sense, but it's palpable that, for example, the policies of the Republican party do not bode well for the lgbt community.

To these people, the statements cannot be swept aside. The colour of his character appears to them so corrupted that even with a flawless economic policy he would still be viscerally unappealing.

In fact, let me provide an example. Trump has repeatedly stated views in favour of the use of nuclear weapons and on the possession of nuclear armament.

I believe that nuclear disarmament is the only way forward for the human race. There is no compromise on this, and to see the use of nuclear weapons in my lifetime is something I will never entertain, even under threat of death.

To me, a president that supports nuclear rearmament is *literally* the end of the world. It's only a balances of probabilities, correct, but the fact is that that position is so fundamental that those in support of such a person seem wholly and fundamentally flawed. 

I understand that to most trump supporters do not vote based on this issue, and frankly it's not the only problem I have with trump, but it's an excellent example of an issue which people can find themselves not only dissatisfied, but very, very afraid 

-------

