CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u6phd
Author: berrieh

0

> I would suggest engaging in open dialogue and explaining why Clinton's economic policies might be better for people than Trumps.

Well, first, I think liberals did that as well, but I think it's a different conversation. 

I think ignoring the absolutely disgusting things that were said in this election, mainly by Trump and his surrogates, is inappropriate and irresponsible. 

I agree that Democrats needed a more populist message, especially in the Rust Belt. Clinton was not a strong candidate for this. I get that entirely. I also agree that there were people who voted for Trump despite his nastiness (xenophobia, sexism, racism, etc) and even, in some cases, despite his policy, mainly because they are simply hurting. I don't think this is as much about "liberal elitism" as the current commentary says, and I think if Dems buy that idea, they will only move further center, which is part of the problem. It's about a) Democrats not fielding an exciting or likable candidate, b) Clinton ignoring the ground game in the Rust Belt because there was a sense those states would never go red, c) Washington Insiders (which is different from liberal elitism -- Clinton was not so much attacked for her liberalism, as we saw in other election cycles, but for her "insider" status and cronyism), and d) a vicious hatred of Clinton herself that allowed a single scandal to be perpetuated well beyond what it would be for any other candidate (emailgate) and an outsider opponent whose scandals were treated more like entertainment than serious politics. 

I don't think the people who don't want to acknowledge privilege has existed will EVER vote for a major Democratic candidate, and I think if Democrats stop speaking up for social justice, they will lose their base. 

>I would also not use the word "racist" since I do not believe that Trump has ever made a racist statement during his campaign. The words bigoted or xenophobic are fine, but racist carries an especially derogatory connotation and it is untrue when used to describe candidate Trump.

I don't understand how racism against Muslims and Mexicans (not just immigrants -- he's made statements against those people as a wide group) is not racist. I agree his rhetoric is more xenophobic than racist, but I don't think saying "xenophobic" is likely to make liberals look any less "elitist" if that's the problem. 

>I would also suggest that if liberals accuse Trump or his supporters of being bigoted, they should do it in a civilized manner. No condescension, no "Fuck Trump" signs, and no calling people deplorable.

Do you think Trump supporters as a whole treated Clinton in a civilized manner? I think there was far more uncivilized talk on the Right than the Left. But holding liberals to higher standards is not unusual. It's a major issue within the Democratic party where they fail to get properly in the mud with the Right. 

I also don't think calling someone or something "deplorable" is uncivilized, to be honest. 

-------

