CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u5c2e
Author: teawreckshero

0

> I would also not use the word "racist" since I do not believe that Trump has ever made a racist statement during his campaign. The words bigoted or xenophobic are fine, but racist carries an especially derogatory connotation and it is untrue when used to describe candidate Trump.

It's interesting to me when people seem to be more concerned with being called racist than actually being racist. I don't recall a time that I've ever been directly called "racist", but I have been called out for being unknowingly insensitive (maybe toward gender or handicap etc), but my first reaction is NEVER "how dare you call me out!". It's always more like, "Shit, I'm sorry! I don't think I'm better than you, please help me for next time." I just can't really imagine having an immediate defensive reaction. I'm always more embarrassed, but at the same time, see it as an opportunity to learn/grow.

Also, everyone should be aware that sometimes people choose to switch from the colloquial usage of "racism" to the sociological definition of "racism". The difference being that the sociological definition is with respect to a given society. So if you're talking specifically about racism in the US, you're referring to the general imbalance people experience based on their race that tends to favor white people. Some people will assume you know this definition, and then make the seemingly absurd claim that "you can't be racist toward white people" or "black people can't be racist" when what they mean to say is "racism in the US favors white people" or "black people don't benefit from racism in the US" which is true in the sociological sense, but not in the colloquial sense. What everyone else calls "racism", sociology would refer to as "prejudice based on race". Similarly, "sexism" is actually "prejudice based on sex". The take-home is that it's all the same prejudice regardless of what it's based on.

-------

