CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u0jy4
Author: PreacherJudge

0

> You are right, it is not a logical or productive reaction. But it is a reaction that many people have. When people call you something - especially something that you are not - it makes you very angry. not a good reason to vote, but it is a reason, and I think it cost Hillary a lot.

Maybe... though there's no evidence for it.  But help me make sense of this.  I don't want to misrepresent you, but what I hear you saying is that you don't necessaily disagree with a lot of liberals' problems, but you get really mad that they call those problems "racist" instead of "xenophobic."  

If this is true.... do you see how pedantic and arbitrary and baffling it comes off as?  For one, the distinctions between the words seem very small to me.  For another... dude, give us a break.  I know people who've started taking medication because they're Muslim and Trump's rhetoric makes them worry they're constantly in physical danger.  It's a tense, important time.  Give me a break for using the wrong synonym.

> Sure, and it is fine to call Trump out on his stances on immigration and muslims. Personally I agree with neither. But when you start calling him racist, you are intentionally misrepresenting the situation that that will make voters angry, me included.

Of course I'm not intentionally misrepresenting the situation; we disagree about what "racist" means.  This is part of why I think the problem isn't on liberals, it's on the people who react without listening.  If you want a dialogue (a very worthwhile goal, I agree), then you gotta show up too and willing to know the context of what people are saying and what they mean.  

Again, I'm not saying nasty people on the left don't exist.  I'm saying that lots of times, a liberal will say "I hate white nationalist Trump supporters" and a Trump voter will say "You called all Trump supporters white nationalists, you asshole!"  

In other words, people are so defensive about being called racist (whatever their definition is) they will fly into a frantic rage at the conversation merely being broached.  So what're my options?  Never talk about these injustices I think are important?  Or do I try to bring it up, knowing that the biggest danger is driving the person to vote for a guy they would have voted for anyway?

-------

