CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9uh6kz
Author: mashuto

0

Maybe... stop supporting candidates that want to take away their rights for no other reason than their skin color or sexual orientation or the fact that their religion is different?

Do you know why the term racist gets thrown out so much here? First off I know that not all Trump supporters are truly racist, thats just as bad as you earlier claiming all liberals are calling all Trump supporters racist. But the racism comment gets thrown around because of actual things Trump says.

Lets go back to his announcment speech, calling mexicans rapists. Sure he said not all of them, but why even say that at all? It was designed to get a group of people turned against another group of people based purely on culture and race. That sounds like racism to me.

What about the policy of banning Muslim immigration and refugees? You can sure make a case that islamic terrorism is an actual threat, but to outright ban anyone who belongs to that religion from entering the country? As if somehow anyone who is Christian or belongs to another religion is inherently better. Why? Because a small percent of Muslims are terrorists? Shit, I guarantee you a small percent of Christians are psychopathic murderers. Should we ban them? Its not that much of a leap to call that policy racist. And please dont make the argument that its not racist because Islam isnt a race, its a religion. At this point its really the same thing, its demeaning a group of people based on a single characteristic of the group that has nothing to do with how those people actually are.

>They could start by not calling us deplorables

This is the same kind of issue. You are lumping everyone who doesnt agree with you into a group. I dont think all Trump supporters are racist, but it bothers me that people who support Trump are supporting rhetoric and policies that are very clearly racist.

And its entirely possible that the media is blowing things out of proportion. But its more than just his rhetoric, its his so called policies too. Building a wall to keep Mexicans out? Stopping Muslim immigration or refugees. Do you see how its not such a jump (especially considering his rhetoric) to equate that to basically saying, yea, lets keep all the non christian brown people out of our country!

So, I doubt I will have changed your mind about anything here since you seem to be a person who voted for Trump and at least in part did it because you didnt like people calling Trump supporters racist. So there really is no way to change that view since it seems like a fact to you, not a view.

I will just say that voting based on name calling from the opposition side doesnt sound like a smart thing, and completely ignores the fact that the name calling goes both ways. What about cuck, and libtard, and pussy and any number of other things conservatives have been throwing at liberals.

By the way... in another one of your posts here....

>>No, again, that was the emphasis of the MEDIA.

>I am talking about all liberals, including the media and bystanders.

Thats you doing the same thing you are calling liberals out for here...

And one more time, I personally haven't called anyone racist, nor do I believe that all Trump supporters are racist. But, people who are supporting Trump are very clearly supporting policies and rhetoric that if not directly racist (xenophobic or whatever you want to call it) are similar enough that its basically the same thing.

-------

