CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u5ysu
Author: deyesed

0

First: sorry that the system failed you and so many others. You're right to want to vote for Trump over Clinton, and as much as I'm afraid of Trump's policies I'm glad that democracy has not been entirely strangled by the elite. And I'm honestly glad that you're here to discuss politics with people who may not agree with you, despite other people not listening and just insulting you.

In hindsight, this election is instructive - nothing productive comes out of talking *at* each other. Liberals and their more white collar jobs were making a fuss about social issues because that's their own main concern, whereas working class middle America was fed up with being ignored and left behind for decades. Neither side reconciled that their concerns are both important and should all be addressed, particularly in the media. MSM followed the money and covered drama, driving people apart by portraying both sides as more extreme than they are. In reality most voters didn't even vote based on the same issues.

You and a lot of other Americans are hurting. I know how bad a lot of states are. Your concerns are very important, so let's talk. Trump's economic policies only sound good in his stump speech. Even conservatives estimate that Trump's income tax policy would lose billions in government revenue. And this is without appreciable decreases in low income families' taxation\*. Now consider Trump's trillion dollar infrastructure plan. Where's the funding going to come from?

Next, the idea of bringing back manufacturing seems appealing as a solution, but the developed world transitioned to tertiary economies. The fault doesn't lie with this trend, it lies with politicians who refused to legislate a good transition to the new economy. And the long term fix isn't going to be reverting to heavy industry. I empathize with your struggle. It's going to hurt a lot more before any real healing happens, but it'll get worse if we apply the bandaid solution of protectionism and isolationism.

So even without looking at how liberals call Trump racist or his own ridiculously unprofessional and callous behaviour, there's a substantial case to be made against his platform.

\*Speaking of taxes, look at the case of Kansas for a cautionary tale in cutting business taxes for supply-side economics: their experimental trickle down economy is crashing and burning. Time and time again Keynesian economics are proven in the market as a slow but stable engine of growth, whereas I've yet to see a convincing example of the Austrian school working well at full scale.

Edit: your argument reminds me of the knee jerk "not all men" reaction. We're not saying that grassroots Trump supporters are bigoted by nature, but they didn't pressure Trump publicly into assuaging the fears of various minorities about their status as equal citizens. So they're now equally culpable of abandoning half the country.

Edit 2: So the election is over, and Trump has won (despite losing the popular vote). I don't care if you don't think Trump is racist. We need to think about the future and how to work together on the big issues. We need to make sure everyone who is willing and able to contribute to society enjoys the wealth we produce. We need to make sure Trump doesn't fuck up our global warming goals. We need to tell the Republican dominated Congress to not take advantage of their majority to set back social activism by 50+ years. We need to realize that we are the same people deep down, and that we have the same goal of making America better. So let's drop the partisan shouting and straw manning and whip the establishment into shape while they're still cowed by the election results. Hillary may have lost, but her slogan rings true - we're really better together.

-------

