CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9u8chi
Author: Nausved

0

The thing is, the right has traditionally taken a more belligerent tone while the left has traditionally taken a more benevolent tone, due to deep-down ideological differences. They each have their place; conservatism promotes caution and defense (useful in times of danger), while progressivism promotes fairness and quality of life (useful in times of security). In this period of human history, we live in an era of unprecedented stability and prosperity throughout much of the world, and so the progressive "strategy"--if you can quite call it that--has served the left very well and moved the country in an overall progressive direction. 

But right now, a lot of people on the left have forgotten their leftwing ideals and have become strangely antagonistic themselves. To someone on the fence, this will tend to make *both* sides look unnecessarily hostile, but only one of them comes across as honest about it. The other side ends up looking hypocritical and deceptive, which amplifies distrust.

I think a lot of people found both Trump and Clinton foul, but they felt like Trump was openly foul, while Clinton was underhandedly so. All else being equal, scared people tend to prefer facing a known danger to an unknown danger.

Granted, a great deal of us were still hoping for a Clinton win. But I think that was largely the result of having different uncertainties. I find Trump vastly more unpredictable and unknowable than Clinton, and therefore far more terrifying. But it helps that Clinton and her colleagues are closer to my subculture than Trump and his. It's easier to "get" your own people--their aims, their motivations, their language, etc.--than a foreign people. 

And to a lot of folks in this country, *we* are a foreign people; we have seemingly arbitrary and ever-changing rules about ethical social behavior, locked behind the gates of a university education that is inaccessible to many, or trickling out too slowly from city centers for rural folks to keep up. 

We're doing a damn poor job of making ourselves fathomable and welcoming to those who aren't already perfectly in lockstep with us. We do whole lot of talking *about* them, but we don't do enough talking *to* them. Consequently, we can't help but neglect--and sometimes outright dismiss--their concerns (which are as real as our own, often life-or-death).

-------

