CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ui9xo
Author: RexDraco

0

To keep it short, Clinton lost because of a large quantity of other reasons. From the huge diversity of conspiracy theories that circulated within a short duration, all of which were dreadfully supported by both facts you can read in obscure or foreign news and the conspiracy theories even the FBI wasn't sure enough to avoid investigation about. She also had problems with not being transparent enough, unrealistic expectations from American citizens for preaching things most of us don't want, and for not visiting many states for rallies (possibly which contributed to her loss the greatest). 


She has held private meetings with wallstreet. Instead of being transparent and using the same speech publicly, she gave a personalized ones to some of the richest individuals in the country, which inevitability caused her to lose great trust by many individuals. She also never made clear what all her intentions were, for a while relying on mediocre campaign tricks like wearing a BLM shirt or, intentional or not, having someone basically advertise "how great it would be to finally have a female president" which both equally damaged her case. People that are dumb might fall for that at first, but when your other candidate is regularly rabble-rousing, you need to do better. To sum this up, her lack of transparency without her goals being established in a clear and reachable way hurt her campaign. The stuff she made clear were things Trump also agreed with, many of the times, while her stance on firearms being different among other things such as insurance, both things that will have an opposite reaction on each half of the country. Half of the Americans prefer to keep their guns, other half wants to see a universal healthcare forced upon people disguised as an expense instead of a tax for young people to pay in order to take care of the old. 


Her greatest loss was not popular vote, but electoral, which was pretty damn close even. She didn't visit enough states like Trump did, meaning Trump left an impression and she didn't. This was her greatest downfall. She would have won if she just had made the effort to visit these rallies she should have hosted. Many speculate it's her illness, but she could at least use her double like she did before but make it less obvious (majority of people, including myself initially, didn't think she had one) and it would have worked fine on most people. Instead, she stayed home playing sick and assumed her binge advertisement and potentially bribing various stations to only air her advertisement (speculation based on observation, but very likely the case) would work just fine. You cannot compensate rallies with advertisement. Especially if people begins to associate your advertisements with inconvenience or annoyance. 


Overall, she would have won in spite of liberals being typical liberals. They're typically a bit more progressive, which in result also causes them to sometimes feel above others with old fashioned standards; or at least this is how I feel. Regardless, you could say some of the same of the republican party. What hurt Clinton was her incompetence and lack of health to run the election properly. She preached the wrong things the wrong way and never gained America's trust. People didn't vote for Trump, they voted to not have Hilary as president. 

-------

