CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9un74t
Author: TheophilusOmega

0

I think the problem comes from how liberals and conservatives understand the definition of words like racist (or misogynistic, xenophobic, homophobic, etc). 

When a conservative hears someone call them a racist they have images of whites-only bathrooms, firehosing black protesters, publicly calling people niggers, and they think to themselves "that's not me, I don't do those things, I don't like those things, therefore I'm not a racist." Conservatives tend to see racism as a crime of *intent.*

What a liberal means when they call someone a racist is that there's something more subtle they perceive as being biased against other racial groups, *resulting* disperate outcomes. 

Take a school district in wealthy white nieborhoods that keeps out students from poor neighborhoods that so happen to be black nieborhoods. For our purposes let's assume the best and say this school district was simply established to provide more funding and higher quality education to the children of these rich white parents, no racist intent whatsoever. A liberal might argue that it's racist to establish a rich white school and leave black students in poor failing schools. Because the outcome is that white children get good educations, and black children get poor educations, that is a racist result.

The problem is that liberals and conservatives say the same words but are speaking different languages. Try calling a conservative white parent a racist for having a better school district that has no black students and they say, "This has nothing to do with race, this is about education. I'm not intending to create a whites-only school Jim Crow style, it's an unfortunate outcome but it's not racist." To which a liberal would say, "This has everything to do with race; white students win, black students loose. Therefore racist." It's an endless loop where liberals can talk down to conservatives and feel morally superior, and conservatives constantly feel exasperated and under assault.

As a society I think we need new terms to converse with each other, where we have one word that means old school racist, and one that means disparate racial outcomes as unintended consequence, and the same goes for misogyny, xenophobia, homophobia, etc.







-------

