CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ui5cx
Author: DashingLeech

0

You don't go far enough. Look, I could never support Trump. He's not a good leader and has bad ideas on so many things, from environment to international relations. 

But as a left-of-center liberal (in the more general sense you refer to), I can't stand the regressive left full of social justice warriors and neo-feminists. It's not just Trump supporters they insult; they insult anybody and everybody who disagrees with them with massive overkill. Their rhetoric is built on extremizing any disagreement.

"Safe" no longer means safe from harm; it means nobody with differing ideology is allowed in, and no debate or disagreement. "Violence" no longer means physical harm, but includes disagreement with an SJW. "Abuse" no longer means harrassment, but merely calling a transgendered person by the wrong pronoun. 

If you *don't* support BLM you are called a racist. If you question neo-feminists on any claim, point out the biological causes of rape and not "rape culture", or mention any difficulties men have, you are called a sexist. If you support rights for men, you are called a misogynist. 

This isn't just bad behaviour; it dilutes the meaning of these terms and undermines people with real problems. Is a victim of violence somebody who was beaten up, or somebody who had their ideology challenged? When a woman can feel "unsafe" because of a T-shirt some man is wearing, and have that man hauled before university administration and punished, does anybody care anymore when women feel "unsafe"? It's just excuses to oppress others by stealing language.

It's not just Trump support. It's not just smugness and elitism. It's really bad behaviour, bad beliefs, and harmful to society. It's a cult. I have little doubt that the people who perpetrate such bad behaviour have the purest of intentions, but they believe that intention allows them to do what they like. That is the basis of most evil. Mau thought he was doing good for "the people" and slaughtered millions. Pol Pot and the Kmer Rough thought they was doing good for "the people" and slaughtered millions. Mussolini thought he was doing good for the people of Italy, and oppressed so many in doing so. Yes, even the big H himself; Hitler thought what he was doing was good for the world.

Intention to do good is not enough. You need to be fair. You need to listen to your opponents and address the issues head on. Shutting down speech is bad, not good. Shutting down debate is bad, not good.

I'm even more angry and this movement, on *my* side of politics at that, for creating such a divisive society that they played a major part in getting Trump elected. Brexit comes from that too. Expect to see backlash more and more.

The regressive left needs to get its act together or will damn us all.


-------

