CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ue95t
Author: Preaddly

0

Perhaps this is just a difference in culture. My guess is that in some areas people believe that if one isn't working hard they're lazy. And likewise, people like me believe that if one is working hard when they don't have to they're stupid. Well, I'm not lazy, and you're not stupid, so the issue has to be a matter of ingrained cultural values. I don't expect you to change your values and I have no interest in changing mine. 

The next part is going to sound condescending, like I'm shaming you or I'm being smug. But this is the truth and has been since humans existed. It's unfortunate and I'm very sorry. 

Technology is going to make your way of life obsolete, in fact it already has in much of the rust belt. You can't stop it, no one can, because businesses don't get as much value out of hard work as it does smart work. Where does this leave you? Unfulfilled, because you have to change your values if you don't want to be left behind. But that's asking too much, isn't it? To just adapt already or be left behind in the dust? Yes it is, and it's just so unfair. But I can't help you. The work you want to do isn't productive enough, not fast enough, not cost effective enough to earn a living you most assuredly deserve. 

So yeah, I'm pissed off about Trump but I'm more concerned that he promised you something he can't deliver. No one, not even the president, is going to convince any businessman to do anything that isn't cost effective. He has bills to pay too and plenty of bigger fish that want what he has. What choice does he have but to make production faster and cheaper? Asking him to do otherwise is setting him up for failure and when his business goes under your job goes with it. The big fish are using robots and computers and they're laying off workers like you. You'll never be more capable than they are, no human on Earth ever could. 

Like I said before, you're not stupid. Your heart is broken. You're in mourning. I'm sorry for your loss, truly I am. Everything above is your reality. So get busy, now. You're not far enough behind that you can't catch up. 

-------

