CMV: THERE IS NO REAL EVIDENCE THAT BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE EASILY BEATEN TRUMP, DESPITE THE FLOOD OF /R/ALL POSTS CLAIMING SO
ID: d9v1p9h
Author: Lithide

0

> Trump didn't win because he did better than past candidates.

> The data shows he preformed similar to Romney.

That's looking at the bare popular vote. How much of that is his underperformance in densely populated blue states like California, though? He did lose Orange County after all. 

If you look at the numbers, in some critical states like Pennsylvania, Trump did overperform. He got 230,000 votes more than Romney (bigger than Hillary's underperformance of 150,000 votes compared to 2012). If Trump had run in 2012 he might have won Pennsylvania (Obama got 2.99 million votes, while Trump got 2.91 million votes). In Michigan, too, Trump overperformed by 170,000 votes. The general trend in the Midwest is that Trump got significantly more (>100,000) votes than Romney did. It's just that Trump performed similarly to Romney in the South (where Bernie, who did badly in the Black Belt, is unlikely to inspire much greater turnout) and did horribly in a few already dark blue states where turnout was very low on both sides (Trump lost 2 million votes in California, 450,000 votes in Washington, and 100,000 votes in Massachusetts, compared to Romney). 

**Saying it was all because of HRC's turnout is misleading because it compares the bare popular vote to make it look like Trump did similar to Romney, when there's a lot of regional variation - Trump did much better in the Rust Belt and got much, much fewer votes than Romney in a few already blue states with generally low turnout.** 

Anyways, even if Trump doesn't win any of the states he won just barely irl, he has 259 electoral votes. All he needs is Bloomberg to just take 10 electoral votes from Bernie - plausible considering people in some normally blue states might feel intimidated by Bernie'a rhetoric - and either he will win the vote, or the House will give him the Presidency. 

-------

