CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9v5q3t
Author: elliptibang

0

>No one ever acknowledges that people might have a legitimate reason to vote for Trump, or that we might not be racist for doing do.

The fact that you're motivated by something other than conscious bigotry doesn't necessarily get you off the hook. You know this man. No matter where you go for your news, you know how he's treated and spoken about women, immigrants, people of color, etc. throughout his career. You've seen how he bullies and threatens his enemies. If it's easy for you to shrug that stuff off like it's no big deal, that says something really significant about you and your priorities.

Donald Trump was just chosen to lead our armed forces and represent us to the world. He has been given what is arguably the most coveted and important job that has ever existed. For those of us who also think of the presidency as a profoundly high honor--one that ought to be reserved for the very best among us--the fact that the people of this country chose to give it to a man like Trump is truly heartbreaking, and will be a source of collective shame for the remainder of our nation's history.

You were willing to play a role in making that happen...why, again?

>Me and other voters I know were partially motivated by revenge. We just wanted to lash out at liberals, at all their smugness and elitism. Maybe Trump will not fix everything, but he can at least piss the liberals off. Make them feel some of the pain they make us feel.

What you have to understand is that you weren't *just* flipping off the "liberal elites." You sent the exact same message to all of the people who've been mocked, abused, threatened, *and physically assaulted* by Trump. You were willing to let him get away with all of it as long as you got that sweet, sweet revenge against those uptight, condescending liberals.

That's what people mean when they say that Trump supporters are racists or xenophobes or misogynists or whatever. We aren't saying that you spend your Saturday nights burning crosses and date raping migrant workers. We're saying that you seem to be disturbingly *indifferent* to the casual mistreatment of anyone who isn't a white, native-born American man.

Political expedience has nothing to do with it. Entertainment has nothing to do with it. Trump supporters are described as "deplorable" because people sincerely feel that way about them.

-------

