CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ubpri
Author: felesroo

0

I don't feel any pain from Trump's win, sorry. If anything, I feel sorry for the rural areas who voted for him. My urban, stock-owning, transit-taking life won't change any regardless of who's the president.

I grew up in a DEEPLY red state. A lot of people I know are the "classic" Trump supporters: they get by financially, they like to hang out at casinos and shoot skeet on the weekends. They have boats and go fishing. They drive trucks and wear baseball caps in non-athletic situations. They think Olive Garden is an upscale restaurant. They have opinions about Wal-Mart vs. Target and Ford vs. Chevy. They don't understand what I do for work and they think after 20 years that I'm still going to move back "home" someday. Yeah, never. I got out of there the first chance I got.

But their lives don't matter to me. I live in an urban area far away from there. I waste no money on car payments or gasoline, appliances or guttering. I don't play the lotto and I don't gamble. I have stocks and savings and I read books for fun.

I literally do not give a shit about any of that stuff "back home". Heroin epidemic? I don't do heroin, so doesn't effect me. Same goes for Meth - not my problem. Rural hospitals closing? Don't bother me none. Gas prices? I literally do not even know what gas sells for at the moment.

So no, I don't care about the Republican protest-the-liberals vote and no one else does either. Yeah, some people who are super into politics are all ruffled up, but the reality is NEITHER party will help any of the people I know back home. Insulin won't get cheaper. Epi-pens won't get cheaper. Health insurance won't become cheaper or more affordable for them. No one, and I mean NO ONE, gives a fuck about them or their problems. They don't make anyone any money, the only purpose they have to anyone in Washington is every two years they get worked up about saving babies and they'll vote Republican.

Now, I get that I'm an urban elitist, but that's the whole point. Elitists DON'T CARE. You can't make them care. They will always look down on "country folk" and you can pop their liberal bubble occasionally, but they will keep making money and doing better, and the shitty towns they left at 18 will keep closing businesses and having young people people move away. There's nothing to do back home but work some shitty job and go to high school football games on Friday nights.

Frankly, Trump is probably good for me. My taxes will go down very likely. I don't care about access to abortion or really anything about guns one way or the other. Opening a factory in Ohio won't change my life at all. Deporting illegal immigrants will probably make my local restaurants have a hard time finding kitchen staff, but they'll probably find some eventually.

Voting to make someone angry is a stupid way to vote. Vote for the issues that matter to you. But good luck with that because neither of the parties as they currently stand give a shit about small town or rural America. The GOP is every bit as elitist as the people you hate.

Congrats on your candidate winning. I hope he follows through on that lower taxes pledge. I can retire earlier then.

-------

