CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ulkg2
Author: cookiebootz

0

Think about the people who make up the majority of Trump's voter base. Most are white, and most are men. Now think about the people who were marginalized by his campaign: women, people of color, immigrants, and LGBTQ.

What's the history of interaction between these groups in the US? When a marginalized group wants equal rights or better treatment, is it resolved with an open dialogue where the group in power goes "Oh shit, sorry, our bad. Thanks for having this conversation with us."? Or does the group in power often use the luxury of not listening, because they won't have to suffer any consequences for not listening? 

That's exactly what happened here. There's tons of material out there that doesn't say anything about Trump's supporters. There are countless articles about the problems with his policies and the problems with him personally. I think you'd probably have to try pretty hard not to see this material, and every one of them was an opening for dialogue. But it didn't work, and now a lot of Americans are imagining a future where we risk civil and reproductive rights, and are made to feel like less than full, deserving citizens in our own country. Trump as president is a concrete threat to our physical and mental health. 

So when you complain that we're being smug and elitist or cruel and condescending, that we should be nicer in our criticisms, you're exercising that luxury of not having to listen, care, or pay attention to the context of this behavior. You're ignoring the huge depth of material that *does* meet your criteria, and the fact that it didn't work. You're also recasting a lot of genuine anger, shock, fear and betrayal as smugness and elitism, something that is "entertaining." 

Imagine somebody has something that belongs to you. You ask them to give it back and they don't listen. You explain the principles of personal property and theft and tell them they should give it back, and they don't listen. You make an impassioned plea for the object, which means a lot to you, and they don't listen. Finally, you say "Give me my stuff you fucking asshole." 

They look surprised and say "Well you don't have to be so mean about it." Then, to punish you for your outburst, they break that thing. 

For a lot of us, that "thing" is an equal place in society. The person keeping it from us is a Trump voter, who is supporting someone who explicitly promised to prevent us from having an equal place in society. And when you voted as a means of lashing out and making liberals feel pain, you're breaking that thing because you weren't paying attention to what other people were saying until it started to include insults directed at you. 

-------

