CMV: I DON'T THINK ELECTING A FEMALE PRESIDENT IS IMPORTANT
ID: d9uwro7
Author: Lmsaylor

0

>It is objectively true that women have more legal rights than men do, despite there being a dominance of male politicians.

Yes, women do have a wide array of rights, despite there being a dominance of male politicians. But think about how/why this is the case. These rights were gained as a result of the time and effort women have spent campaigning and advocating *for women.* Celebrating a female president is no different, it is a reflection of the advancements made by women over the past few decades that have resulted in women's increased participation and representation in government. Considering that women were not granted the right to vote in this country until 100 years ago and for most of US history were considered to be second-class citizens, it is a big deal to have a female president, even though women have already gained equal rights under the law. Just like it was a big deal to have a black president, even though black people have already gained equal rights under the law. I'm actually interested in your thoughts on that - do you consider it important that we elected our first black president a few years ago? Why or why not?

>I may *feel* bad if most of the politicians were female, but reality tells me that this doesn't actually matter. Facts tell me that both men and women politicians are equally capable of making my life better or worse.

None of us have lived under a government in which the vast majority of positions were held by female people (or even an equal percentage), so I'm not sure what facts you are referring to. But regardless, why isn't feeling bad enough? If a government controlled almost entirely by female people made males like yourself feel bad - even if there were no other consequences - wouldn't the opportunity to make people feel less bad be important? I'm not saying that it would be enough of a reason to vote for a male president, only that if a qualified male did run for president, it would make you and other males feel better, which I personally would consider important.

>I happen to be male, but I don't "identify as a male". I'm a person, and I'm an American.

I also don't "identify" as anything, I am a person who happens to be female, and no person who happens to be female has ever been president. This isn't a coincidence, there are reasons behind it - and these reasons affect people who happen to be female. So when someone who happens to be female has a chance of becoming president, it means something to other people who happen to be female. Again, it's not a reason to vote for her, but it's still *important.*

-------

