CMV: I DON'T THINK ELECTING A FEMALE PRESIDENT IS IMPORTANT
ID: d9v2x6c
Author: Lmsaylor

0

>I don't recall Obama ever once bringing up his ethnicity as a reason why people should vote for him

I get that, and I also find it off-putting how much Clinton played the woman-card. But in my opinion the fact that she brought it up doesn't make it any less important. It's a little shameless and manipulative on her part, but it doesn't change the historical significance of her candidacy.

>Why though? When a male was elected as president, I wasn't thinking "yeah a victory for men! As a guy I'm happy another guy is president!" If you don't idenfity as a female, why does the gender of the president matter to you? What's the connection? 

Of course you wouldn't think that, because presidents have only ever been male. No president has ever been female, and as a female person it's nice to see that it's possible. When I said I don't "identify" as female I meant in terms of some sort of gender identity that is separate from my sex; I am female because I am female-sexed, not because I identify as such. But I do feel a connection to other females because we have things in common by virtue of being female. One thing we have in common is growing up thinking it was impossible, or at the very least unheard of/unlikely, for female people - people like us - to be able to hold a position as important as president. There are a number of potential reasons as to why there has never been a female president, but at least part of it is stuff that I personally have experienced while working in a male-dominated environment - being taken less seriously, being sexualized by male coworkers, being expected to focus on family instead of my career, walking a fine line between being respected and being a bitch, etc. It *has* gotten much better in the past couple decades - partly because of people like Hillary Clinton. She is inspiring, I wish I had grown up seeing more women in high ranking positions. I want that for my future children.

>Let me put this another way, would you rather have a male president who wants to protect a woman's (legal) right to choose? Or a female president that wants to roll back Roe v Wade? 

All other things being equal, I would 100% prefer a male president who supports a woman's right to choose over a female president who does not. Generally when people talk about the importance of electing a female president they are not suggesting that gender should override all other considerations. I would never vote for a woman solely because she is a woman - Palin and Fiorina would have been awful presidents in my opinion. Funnily enough I didn't even vote for Hillary, I voted for Johnson, but I can still see the value of a female presidency and I don't think acknowledging the significance of it means someone is voting on the basis of it.

EDIT (sorry for the essay!): Can you elaborate as to why electing the first black president was "absolutely" important, yet the first female president would not be important? Your arguments could easily apply to both: Just like gender shouldn't matter, neither should race. Just like you don't jump for joy when a male is elected, you also probably don't jump for joy when a white person is elected. What's the difference, besides the fact that Hillary acknolwedged it during her campaign? Say she hadn't blatantly used it to her advantage - then would it be important? I'm having trouble understanding your logic.

-------

