CMV: A HARDLINE LIBERTARIAN STANCE, WITH ENOUGH SUPPORT, COULD FORCE ENVIRONMENTALISTS TO PRIVATELY FUND ENVIRONMENTALISM.
ID: d9tseff
Author: WX666

https://goo.gl/images/XKWhQJ

1

The situation described is only unlikely because America is a "wealthy" country. We can look at countries like Haiti, where environmental concerns are prioritized far below that of things like food and medicine for the populace. There, they have destroyed their environment in order to maintain their global economy with their large export of timber. Yes, this is reversible.  But as they are still a struggling country,  as they plant trees they continue to cut them down. This leaves Haiti more susceptible to severe storms, like hurricanes. The damage and cleanup after storms hit the island is always much higher than that of the Dominican Republic.  They can't afford environmental recovery at the cost of their economy. 

Dominican Republic and Haiti border:
https://goo.gl/images/XKWhQJ

The cleanup costs of environmental disasters is enormous. It is far more fiscally responsible for a country to spend the smaller amount of money maintaining a clean environment then dealing with larger issues as they arise.  When a large corporation creates an environmental disaster, they just close up shop and walk away.  The poisoned population and loss of American soil and water is none if their concern if they're out of business or out of the country. This is where the profit is; livable, farmable, sellable land and a population that is contributing to the society with out being poisoned. 

 Environmentalists, which seem mostly based in large cities, are doing nothing for the population of 100 in the small town in Arkansas of the thousands of acres of land. They may not know of the issue,  but more likely they don't care because it doesn't effect them.

The government steps in here. They create rules which businesses have to follow,  and monitor the environment to make sure the populace surrounding is safe. The rules include things like monthly monitoring if waters and soils,  which the business pays for.  The taxes we pay go to monitoring, and to when our government fails at their job. When the government fails to properly maintain the environment and spend the small amount of money when needed,  we end up with huge bills that have to be paid or the populace will suffer. Situations like Flint, Michigan or the orange river in Colorado come to mind for government failures.



-------

https://goo.gl/images/XKWhQJ
REDIRECT NOTICE
The previous page is sending you to http://www.slideshare.net/MiaSamson/sustainability-and-human-development-by-maria-iana-samson If you do not want to visit that page, you can return to the previous page

-------

###IMAGE###