CMV: A HARDLINE LIBERTARIAN STANCE, WITH ENOUGH SUPPORT, COULD FORCE ENVIRONMENTALISTS TO PRIVATELY FUND ENVIRONMENTALISM.
ID: d9tw43k
Author: WX666

0

The argument of probability I'm assuming is from the business polluting and walking away? If so, Kerr Mcgee did exactly this. The government had to sue them, during a long expensive lawsuit, in order to get them responsible to pay. This is something the people living in those areas could not afford to do, as they could barely get a class action lawsuit going to help pay their medical bills. 
If it's something else, please let me know I was/am confused...(I'm new here..)

The will of the people will change, and they may decide to not pay to cleanup polluted areas. But then we'll lose that land. And the populace of the area is no where near a majority of the country, so they will not have a chance to protect themselves. The millions of dollars charged to help fund the cleanup of Kerr Mcgee well be difficult to raise, especially from people who are not affected by that disaster. They surely don't have that kind of money. I suppose they could pray for a generous wealthy person, but in reality the only people losing here are the Americans living in that area and the government which just lost a large amount of land that could be used for economic or societal benefits, ie parks, housing, farming.

Currently, the government decides which projects are most economical for clean up, and which can wait.  A superfund site near me was for an old abandoned landfill that is currently between 2 major highways, in a high population area, with a significant amount of expensive real estate surrounding it. The site is clean now, owned by the government and is a state park. The price of that property is only going up. Will they sell that land now? Who knows,  they're responsible now but not always fiscally smart. But sites that aren't immediately being cleaned are ones in the middle of nowhere, with little to no population ( Nevada/Utah nuclear waste sites). 



-------

