CMV: TRUMP HATERS MAKE INCORRECT ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
OP
ID: 5c55cg
Author: meteoraln

0

As a Trump supporter in NY, I've had a difficult time talking to anyone about politics this election. I've stayed out of debates / arguments and hid in the shadows with the rest of the silent majority.

It's hard to have anything to respond with when a Trump hater starts off with "Only stupid, racist, sexist, people like Trump". These aren't random people, these are my friends. And while they're probably able to draw the line at me being stupid / racist / sexist (because I'm none of those), it's the automatic assumption that they take on about anyone who supports Trump. But, why take the risk? I refrained from most political conversations.

I find that most Trump supporters do not support him for the reasons that Trump haters think. I haven't met any Trump supporters who care about the wall or deporting illegal immigrants, are racist, or hate women. I certainly don't. Sure, there are some people like that out there, just like there are some violent people who support Hilary. But the actions of a few bad people are not representative of the candidate that they support. I think it is a good exercise to for Trump haters to think about why someone would support Trump outside of being racist, sexist, etc.

I find this stereotyping disturbing and disingenuous. It's like me saying your Nike shoes were sourced from a 3rd world country which may have children working in the factories. Therefore, because you support Nike, you are a terrible supporter of slavery and child labor, and you have no humanity in you. This is not a healthy attitude for our society. It makes no attempt to search for any truth. Both Hilary and Trump want to do good for America. Despite how much I disagree with Hilary, I acknowledge that she has done a lot of good and her heart is in the right place. It sickens me to see people wishing harm on a candidate or their supporters as if they were less than human.

CMV!

-------

