CMV: TRUMP HATERS MAKE INCORRECT ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
ID: d9tvuvh
Author: Iswallowedafly

https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2016/09/28/i-sold-trump-100000-worth-of-pianos-then-he-stiffed-me/

1

You're misstating the problem. 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2016/09/28/i-sold-trump-100000-worth-of-pianos-then-he-stiffed-me/

Trump and small business owners came to an agreement on price. A service was then rendered. 

Then Trump used his legal team to try to negotiate to pay that person less. 

That person could sue for what was owed, but that would require an expensive lawsuit. Which would cost the small business owner more then the money that Trump didn't pay. 

That's a factual statement. You can look it up if you so want to. I have. All the information is there is you want to look at it. 

You just have to open to the idea that the narrative that you have been sold and the narrative that you hold so dear might be wrong. 

Or you can think that Trump has to be a good businessman that sticks up for small business because Trump has told me over and over again that he for the small business owner. 

You can blame the media all you want, but that doesn't make the facts untrue. 


Dangerous things happen when a people blame the media instead of examine the facts. 

You may chose to ignore facts and blame others all you want to still support your person. 

I get to call you on that. 

You may call him a smart businessman for what he did. 

I will call him a person who stiffed a small business owner out of 30 k because he could. 




-------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2016/09/28/i-sold-trump-100000-worth-of-pianos-then-he-stiffed-me/
I SOLD TRUMP $100,000 WORTH OF PIANOS. THEN HE STIFFED ME.
During the first presidential debate Sept. 26, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump said he takes advantage of the laws to ensure the success of his company. (The Washington Post)

At Monday night’s debate, Donald Trump was called out for stiffing the people who work for him. Trump has been accused of failing to pay hundreds of contractors. And so far, he hasn’t seemed very sorry. When asked about failing to pay someone by Hillary Clinton this week, Trump replied, “Maybe he didn’t do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work.”

I take that attack personally. I’m one of the many small business owners who’ve been used by Trump, exploited and forced to suffer a loss because of his corporation’s shady practices.

My relationship with Trump began in 1989, when he asked me to supply several grand and upright pianos to his then-new Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City. I’d been running a music store for more than 30 years at that point, selling instruments to local schools and residents. My business was very much a family affair (my grandsons still run the store). And I had a great relationship with my customers — no one had ever failed to pay.

I was thrilled to get a $100,000 contract from Trump. It was one of the biggest sales I’d ever made. I was supposed to deliver and tune the pianos; the Trump corporation would pay me within 90 days. I asked my lawyer if I should ask for payment upfront, and he laughed. “It’s Donald Trump!” he told me. “He’s got lots of money.”

[Black voters won’t ever like Trump. The debate showed why.]

But when I requested payment, the Trump corporation hemmed and hawed. Its executives avoided my calls and crafted excuses. After a couple of months, I got a letter telling me that the casino was short on funds. They would pay 70 percent of what they owed me. There was no negotiating. I didn’t know what to do — I couldn’t afford to sue the Trump corporation, and I needed money to pay my piano suppliers. So I took the $70,000.

Losing $30,000 was a big hit to me and my family. The profit from Trump was meant to be a big part of my salary for the year. So I made much less. There was no money to help grow my business. I had fewer pianos in the showroom and a smaller advertising budget. Because of Trump, my store stagnated for a couple of years. It made me feel really bad, like I’d been taken advantage of. I was embarrassed.

Today, when I hear Trump brag about paying small business owners less than he agreed, I get angry. He’s always suggesting that the people who worked for him didn’t do the right job, didn’t complete their work on time, that something was wrong. But I delivered quality pianos, tuned and ready to go. I did everything right. And then Trump cheated me. It’s a callous way to do business.

Trump keeps saying that it’s time we got a businessman to run the country. Of course, I think it’s important to find someone who can bolster the economy. But I also think we need a president who cares about small business owners, and about honoring his commitments. That’s not Trump.

1 of 17 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Memorable quotes from Clinton and Trump’s first presidential debate View Photos Here are some memorable quotes from the presidential debate in Hempstead, N.Y. Caption Here are some memorable quotes from the presidential debate in Hempstead, N.Y. Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

Read more:

Donald Trump was my hero. Until I tried to sell Trump talking novelty pens.

Don’t compare Trump to Hitler. It belittles Hitler.

I yelled “Black lives matter!” at a Trump rally. Here’s what happened next.

-------

