CMV: TRUMP HATERS MAKE INCORRECT ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
ID: d9ts2od
Author: Generic_On_Reddit

0

While I disagree with him saying that you are supporting those views by supporting him, I do agree that you are making it worse by not engaging in the discourse, with close friends especially. 

They are who you should talk to it about it the most. People have not been exposed to reasonable reasons for supporting Trump. Regardless of validity, they know Trump for racism, bigotry, xenophobia, etc. So they think that's the only reason someone would vote for him. 

If you believe yourself to be a reasonable Trump supporter, supporting him for justifiable reasons, then you should inform your friends of this so they can see another reason. How would they know there are any other reasons if the people that actually has valid reasons don't talk? 

I'm optimistic, so I will always give the benefit of the doubt and assume people have valid reasons for supporting whoever they do. This idea persists, not because of reality, but despite it. I don't discuss politics with anyone. I don't know any Trump supporters. His hallmark issues are "TEN FEET HIGHER" and "no Muslims". If I wasn't politically active and optimistic on other people, I wouldn't be able to assume what I've mentioned because the only Trump supporters that talk are the ones yelling ten feet higher. 

Yes, it may be hard. Yes, there may be ridicule and even hostility, but the people on either side of history have always had to face ridicule and hostility for their ideas. 

Also, regarding this: 

> I haven't met any supporters that care about his wall or illegal immigrants... 

While I don't doubt your claim, it is simply a fact that this is all he talked about in the beginning. Every time he opened his mouth, it was about illegal immigrants destroying everything. That's where many of his sound bites came from ie "They're not sending their best". I would be shocked if the main, basically only, view he had vocalists throughout the primaries wasn't shared by many of his supporters. Truly, nothing has been as constant throughout his campaign as this, from my perspective. 

I'm not gonna stretch and say it means you support that by supporting him, just that I would be shocked if most of his supporters didn't support this. 

To conclude, yes, people may have warped perception of Trump supporters, but considering all that I've said: what do you expect? How do you expect that to change? Stereotypes don't die when you remove the people that prove them wrong. You have to play the game. 

-------

