CMV: TRUMP HATERS MAKE INCORRECT ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
ID: d9twgsz
Author: Generic_On_Reddit

0

> There's a bias here. I'm in a blue state, so there simply aren't many Trump supporters around. I'm not claiming that they don't exist, but just that I haven't met any.

And the people you've spoken with have the same bias. The difference is you've seen a good side of his campaign and they haven't. Or, even if they have, they haven't seen anyone support that part, only the wall. But there isn't anything to kill that bias. 

>  I will have a hard time accepting that I have fault in disengaging these conversations.

I am not saying it's your fault. If you don't want to deal with the backlash, that's your business. If you don't consider your it your duty to change perceptions, that's your business, it's your decision. 

But what I am saying is that you can't expect people to have a view of this reasonable view of Trump supporters if the reasonable Trump supporters don't show themselves. It only strengthens the view that they're all racist or whatever if those are the only ones seen, which creates more hostility. 

Again, not saying it's your fault. People should be more reasonable and open to exploring other's views. But you also can't expect them to see people that don't show themselves. You can't expect them to hear your voice when you don't say anything. That's just not realistic. It's not rational. 

Look at it like any other stereotype. What if everyone that wasn't a stereotypical [whatever] disappeared? It only makes the stereotype stronger, because it confirms biases. 

> I think all of American needs this answer.

Time will tell. With what he pushes and with it's reception, we'll gain an idea of why he was voted for. 

> The grief of Hilary supporters was heavy today, and a united country is in our best interest.

I agree. I wish nothing but the best for our country. I hope the reasons you support him are what is best for this country. I hope he leaves the views/policies he's advocated that you don't support. But if any of these hopes fail, I hope it's worth it. 

-------

