CMV: TRUMP HATERS MAKE INCORRECT ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
ID: d9tww2b
Author: Xelveon

0

You may not be racist/sexist/homophobic, and in voting for Trump, you may not even be endorsing his racism/sexism/homophobia. I certainly don't believe all Trump supporters are. However, Trump IS racist, sexist, and homophobic. His running-mate, Pence, believes in gay conversion therapy and wants to make women hold funerals for their aborted fetuses.

You may not endorse these opinions. Hell, you might HATE these opinions and hate that Trump and Pence hold them. But it still stands that, even if you found those opinions abhorrent, you found them less important than other issues, enough to cast your vote for them. I don't know what issues you sided with Trump on, but whatever they were, you decided they were worth the sacrifice of having very bigoted people in power.

I can understand why you feel that way. To many people, Trump's stance on other issues like outsourcing jobs affects them way more than his bigotry would. But there are other perspectives as well. To a gay person, for example, it's very likely that Trump's bigotry will have a huge effect on their lives, and seeing other people prioritize different issues over their well-being might understandably make them angry. Nobody wants to be part of the group that has to take the fall, and in this election the groups that are going to end up taking the fall are going to take it HARD. In an ideal world, candidates would not be forced to toe a party line and people could vote in a candidate with all the things they like about Trump but without all the social conservatism that goes along with the fiscal conservatism. Unfortunately, the way it is, we're kind of stuck mixing social and economic ideologies and a lot of people are stuck prioritizing one or the other. To people that really care about and are effected by social issues, voting someone in despite their social stances can seem racist/sexist/homophobic. It's not an entirely rational reaction but it can definitely feel like you just don't care.

The fact that a lot of very vocal people here on Reddit are smugly touting the fact that they voted Trump just to spite SJWs for calling them bigots certainly isn't helping this perception, either. People are thinking 'wow, I'm going to face real, tough consequences because people decided my pain was worth getting back at the people who hurt their feelings'. I'm especially confused by how thin-skinned people are being about these words. They are just that: words. Anti-SJWs gets up in arms when SJWs say certain words are offensive but so many of them are admitting they voted in this election because some nasty words hurt their feelings. However, if someone says they're hurt by words like "faggot" and "retard", these same people will tell them to grow a thicker skin and get over it. Is reacting to hurtful words valid, or should you just sit down and be thick-skinned? (This last part may not apply directly to you, but this 'Trump won because Hillary's side kept calling people mean things' rhetoric a ton today and it's boggling my mind.)

-------

