CMV: THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH NOT VOTING. NOBODY SHOULD BE CRITICIZED FOR FAILING/REFUSING TO VOTE.
ID: d9tnuiu
Author: leftright-goodnight

0

Dont come into this subreddit with that attitude. You need to realise that its (very) possible that you dont know what you're talking about.

>The government absolutely represents you even if you didn't vote. 

The govt looks at the people as groups. Young, Old, Rich, Poor, etc. If you *know* that a group doesnt vote much, you know that you dont need to pretend to give a shit about them or make legislation that serves them. 

But if you dont appease a group that does vote in large numbers, they wont vote for you. Thats why young peoples ideals are ignored in politics. We dont vote.

>It's not like you're automatically opted out of programs and legislation because you didn't cast a ballot.

I dont think you know what it meant by being represented by your government. It means they make decisions which align with your interests.

>It is not a duty to vote. It's a right.

Everyone has a duty to vote in order to protect the health of your democracy. The only reason someone wouldnt have a duty to vote is if they honestly dont care if the country collapses.

>I don't understand what you mean by healthy democracy

It means a democracy that isn't headed by a fucking Billionaire businessman.

It means a democracy that actually serves the needs of the people and doesnt fuck over the least powerful people in society.

It means a democracy where the laws are fair and allow equal opportunities for people.

It means a fair society.

> Democracy is about choice and everyone has the choice to vote or not vote

Democracy is not 'about choice'. It means rule by the people. If half the people dont vote then its a shitty democracy because half the people arent being represented in government.

There is literally not one good reason not to vote.

>A democracy is healthy as long as everyone holds that right

Thats silly. Obviously a democracy can still be fucked even if people still have the right to vote.

There are many countries where people can vote but still have no freedom.

-------

