CMV: I JUST DON'T THINK I WILL BE ABLE TO VOTE 3RD PARTY ANYMORE, IF THEY HAVE NO REAL CHANCE OF WINNING.
OP
ID: 5c4nx8
Author: BoozeoisPig

0

I entered the election, knowing full well that I would vote for the candidate I could best hypothesize would generate the most utility. I planned on voting for Hillary Clinton because, to me, she seemed to be the best possible thing my vote could have accomplished. But then I heard the argument that there is precedent for a party absorbing a smaller party and its positions when it gets big enough, via the dixiecrats. And thus, it is good for a 3rd party get to a level of funding where they can build more power. So if you live in a state that is probably going to vote for the greater of two evils, you should salvage your vote to use on Jill Stein to get to 5%.

And I put that number at if Hillary Clinton had a >20% chance of losing and a >80% chance of winning as calculated by 538, because he seemed to have better models of prediction, and even had the best mainstream prediction based on the only methods we know work for determining these probabilities. But there is clearly not enough information to trust to those polls, because Wisconsin was a safe state on the last poll aggregate, and michigan probably was when I voted because I voted early.

I voted for Stein in Utah, and while the polls came more true here, I can't commit to something I don't know has properly correlated with what it is studying. The range between the Donald and Hillary voters in those states is lower than the vote for Stein in those state. By definition, Jill Stein was a spoiler candidate. And if every Stein voter/liberal thought like me when casting their vote, then the results would have been even worse. I, in good conscience, cannot vote for a candidate who is more unlikely to win in a first past the post voting system, because the lesser of two evils is always so much better than the greater of two evils, regarding something like the presidency, that it cannot be jeopardized by misinforming probability calculations.

-------

