CMV: THERE IS NO REAL EVIDENCE THAT BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE EASILY BEATEN TRUMP, DESPITE THE FLOOD OF /R/ALL POSTS CLAIMING SO
ID: d9uig8l
Author: The_Thrash_Particle

0

I'm not sure he would have won, but when I look at what caused Hillary to lose it at least seems plausible. 

1. I think trump was proof that policy doesn't matter. Not only did he barely have any, he didn't want to cut entitlements, flip flopped on abortion  a few times, and despite having an outsider persona his economic plans very clearly benefit elites the most. Stances that you would think would have undermined him if people gave that weight. 

2. What people cared about was saying fuck you to Washington. A lot of people (I want to say 71%) said trumps sexism bothered them, but they still elected him. Because people felt like he heard the little guy, and that was Bernie's main appeal. The districts that used to be democratic that flipped are clearly receptive to liberal ideas, but that wasn't their focus. It was "draining the swamp". 

3. Hillary voters wouldnt have left the fold. I'll admit, many, though not close to most, of Bernie's supporters wrote him in, voted third party, or even voted trump, but those are the votes the dems needed back this election. Hillary voters are pragmatists for the most part. They would have still seen Trumps theat and stayed in line in a way a lot of Bernie supporters didn't. 


4. This all points to Bernie being more, not less competitive in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Yes Hillary won Pennsylvania, but the presidential election was close. Those suburbs could have been much more blue with a candidate speaking to a populist message. You saw Hillary won Pennsylvania, but that assumes Hillary voters wouldn't turn out for Bernie, which I don't believe is the case. 

Hillary won the popular vote, it was only at the margins in a few swing states that cost her and its precisely the area Bernie was the strongest. There were thousands of people who don't like trump, but voted to shake up the system. A lot of those would have chosen a clearly more likeable candidate in Bernie given the opportunity. Would it have been enough? Maybe not, but I think the odds are pretty good. 

-------

