CMV: BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE LOST THE ELECTION.
ID: d9u30aw
Author: dfawoehuio

http://www.businessinsider.com/exit-polls-show-clinton-underperformed-with-black-and-hispanic-voters-2016-11

http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/2016-election-day/trump-did-better-blacks-hispanics-romney-12-exit-polls-n681386

http://www.carlbeijer.com/2016/05/you-have-choice.html

http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/

5

This is just sad so I'll just point out that every bit of data shows #1#Hillary caused the loss of Black and Latino votes#1#, so on this particular subject you are utterly wrong.

#1#http://www.businessinsider.com/exit-polls-show-clinton-underperformed-with-black-and-hispanic-voters-2016-11#1#

#2#Meanwhile Trump's support from these groups was actually an improvement for the GOP.#2#

#2#http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/2016-election-day/trump-did-better-blacks-hispanics-romney-12-exit-polls-n681386#2#

In fact Trump did better with every group except for white men and 'other'.

You're wrong about literally everything else except the correct spelling, but I'm not going to waste my time. HRC is now the biggest national disgrace of all time, and the most unpopular candidate in polling history.

The fact that your terrible campaign's shrieking about scandals had little to no effect on Trump whatsoever is proof that no-one would have listened to the elitist ramblings against Bernie Sanders. #3#He would've crushed your garbage cheating warmonger, and then Trump easily.#3#

#3#http://www.carlbeijer.com/2016/05/you-have-choice.html#3#

#4#even media owned by relatives of donald trump now acknowledges it:#4# #4#http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/#4#

#5#If you don't recognize this is the truth soon, you'll soon be on your way to failing again in 2020.#5#

#5#https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/#5#

-------

http://www.businessinsider.com/exit-polls-show-clinton-underperformed-with-black-and-hispanic-voters-2016-11
EXIT POLLS SHOW CLINTON UNDERPERFORMED WITH BLACK AND HISPANIC VOTERS
Among the many questions early exit polls are raising about Donald Trump's upset victory Tuesday evening is how #1#Hillary Clinton underperformed so severely among black and Hispanic voters#1#, when she was expected to overwhelmingly sweep up each demographic.

Exit polls from CNN and NBC show that Trump managed to perform better among black and Hispanic voters than Republican nominee Mitt Romney did in 2012.

Trump took 29% of the Hispanic vote, whereas Romney only claimed 27%. It's a markedly higher result than anticipated, particularly from a candidate who once characterized Mexicans as "rapists" and whose platform included building a wall along the US-Mexico border and organizing mass deportations of undocumented immigrants.

Yet despite a surge in early voting among Hispanics in states like Florida, Arizona, and Nevada, which boosted expectations of a Clinton victory, she ended up winning just 65% of the Hispanic vote — down from Obama's 71% in 2012.

The black vote, too, has mystified pundits, who believed that Trump's hyperbolic claims about black communities residing in crime-laden inner cities would have more severely depressed his performance among the demographic.

Instead, Trump claimed 8% of the black vote — a low number, but still two percentage points higher than Romney had received in 2012.

Clinton, who had relied on black voters as her "firewall" during the primaries, received less of their vote than expected in the general election. She only received 88% of their vote, down from the whopping 93% who supported Obama in 2012.

-------

http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/2016-election-day/trump-did-better-blacks-hispanics-romney-12-exit-polls-n681386
TRUMP DID BETTER WITH BLACKS, HISPANICS THAN ROMNEY IN ‘12: EXIT POLLS
Play Facebook

Twitter

Embed A look back at what Donald Trump promised he'd do in first 100 days 3:14 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

#2#Donald Trump performed stronger among black and Hispanic voters than Mitt Romney did as the Republican nominee in 2012, according to NBC Exit Polls.#2#

Tuesday’s exit poll results have not yet been finalized but so far they show Trump outmatching Romney by two points in each voting bloc.

Trump claimed 29 percent of the Hispanic vote on Tuesday compared to Romney’s 27 percent in 2012. With blacks, exit polls show Trump claimed 8 percent of the vote to the previous Republican nominee’s 6 percent.

That means Trump — who called Mexicans “rapists” and “killers” — garnered more support from Hispanics than a candidate whose most controversial position was telling undocumented immigrants to “self-deport.”

Related: Undocumented Immigrants Tell Trump They're #HereToStay

Trump has frequently linked blacks to “inner city” slums and crime at rallies. Yet he performed better among African American voters than a considerably more moderate Republican nominee.

The exit poll results reinforce how the 2016 election flies in the face of political wisdom and norms. But it is also just as much a story about how Hillary Clinton was unable to match President Barack Obama’s appeal among minorities.

Blacks and Latinos were supposed to be the Democratic nominee’s firewall in the general election.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Embed Latinos React as Trump Racks Up Electoral Votes 1:18 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Clinton had historically strong support among both groups during the two presidential primaries that she competed in. And changing demographics in key battleground states were projected to boost her standing against a Republican party that was accused of alienating minority voters.

Instead Clinton underperformed in efforts to match the historic levels of support that Obama achieved.

The first African American president carried 93 percent of the black vote against Romney. Clinton came in five points below him against Trump. With Hispanics, Obama garnered 71 percent support in 2012. Clinton on Tuesday claimed 65 percent.

Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on Dec. 1, 2008. Pablo Martinez Monsivais / AP, file

Factors could temper the results of the exit polls as the final numbers settle into place. Other variables in gathering surveys, for example language barriers for non-English speakers, also stand muddy the full scope of Clinton’s support among minorities.

But with a Trump presidency comes the likelihood he will face a deeply divided nation. NBC News Exit Polls also found that two-thirds of Asian, black and Hispanic voters voiced they were “scared” with the idea of Trump assuming the Oval Office.

Republican elites infamously concluded after Romney’s defeat that the party needed to grow more inclusive toward minorities. The GOP decided it needed to make inroads with Latinos or risk ceding all future presidential elections to Democrats.

Trump on Tuesday proved them all wrong.

-------

http://www.carlbeijer.com/2016/05/you-have-choice_3.html

-------

http://www.inquisitr.com/3481636/bernie-sanders-would-have-won-this-election-with-a-landslide-had-he-still-been-in-the-race-says-poll/

-------
###IMAGE###

https://theintercept.com/2016/11/09/democrats-trump-and-the-ongoing-dangerous-refusal-to-learn-the-lesson-of-brexit/
DEMOCRATS, TRUMP, AND THE ONGOING, DANGEROUS REFUSAL TO LEARN THE LESSON OF BREXIT

The parallels between the U.K.’s shocking approval of the Brexit referendum in June and the U.S.’s even more shocking election of Donald Trump as president Tuesday night are overwhelming. Elites (outside of populist right-wing circles) aggressively unified across ideological lines in opposition to both. Supporters of Brexit and Trump were continually maligned by the dominant media narrative (validly or otherwise) as primitive, stupid, racist, xenophobic, and irrational. In each case, journalists who spend all day chatting with one another on Twitter and congregating in exclusive social circles in national capitals — constantly re-affirming their own wisdom in an endless feedback loop — were certain of victory. Afterward, the elites whose entitlement to prevail was crushed devoted their energies to blaming everyone they could find except for themselves, while doubling down on their unbridled contempt for those who defied them, steadfastly refusing to examine what drove their insubordination.

The indisputable fact is that prevailing institutions of authority in the West, for decades, have relentlessly and with complete indifference stomped on the economic welfare and social security of hundreds of millions of people. While elite circles gorged themselves on globalism, free trade, Wall Street casino gambling, and endless wars (wars that enriched the perpetrators and sent the poorest and most marginalized to bear all their burdens), they completely ignored the victims of their gluttony, except when those victims piped up a bit too much — when they caused a ruckus — and were then scornfully condemned as troglodytes who were the deserved losers in the glorious, global game of meritocracy.

That message was heard loud and clear. #5#The institutions and elite factions that have spent years mocking, maligning, and pillaging large portions of the population — all while compiling their own long record of failure and corruption and destruction — are now shocked that their dictates and decrees go unheeded.#5# But human beings are not going to follow and obey the exact people they most blame for their suffering. They’re going to do exactly the opposite: purposely defy them and try to impose punishment in retaliation. Their instruments for retaliation are Brexit and Trump. Those are their agents, dispatched on a mission of destruction: aimed at a system and culture they regard — not without reason — as rife with corruption and, above all else, contempt for them and their welfare.

After the Brexit vote, I wrote an article comprehensively detailing these dynamics, which I won’t repeat here but hope those interested will read. The title conveys the crux: “Brexit Is Only the Latest Proof of the Insularity and Failure of Western Establishment Institutions.” That analysis was inspired by a short, incredibly insightful, and now more relevant than ever post-Brexit Facebook note by the Los Angeles Times’s Vincent Bevins, who wrote that “both Brexit and Trumpism are the very, very wrong answers to legitimate questions that urban elites have refused to ask for 30 years.” Bevins went on: “Since the 1980s the elites in rich countries have overplayed their hand, taking all the gains for themselves and just covering their ears when anyone else talks, and now they are watching in horror as voters revolt.”

For those who tried to remove themselves from the self-affirming, vehemently pro-Clinton elite echo chamber of 2016, the warning signs that Brexit screechingly announced were not hard to see. Two short passages from a Slate interview I gave in July summarized those grave dangers: that opinion-making elites were so clustered, so incestuous, so far removed from the people who would decide this election — so contemptuous of them — that they were not only incapable of seeing the trends toward Trump but were unwittingly accelerating those trends with their own condescending, self-glorifying behavior.

Like most everyone else who saw the polling data and predictive models of the media’s self-proclaimed data experts, I long believed Clinton would win, but the reasons why she very well could lose were not hard to see. The warning lights were flashing in neon for a long time, but they were in seedy places that elites studiously avoid. The few people who purposely went to those places and listened, such as Chris Arnade, saw and heard them loud and clear. The ongoing failure to take heed of this intense but invisible resentment and suffering guarantees that it will fester and strengthen. This was the last paragraph of my July article on the Brexit fallout:

Instead of acknowledging and addressing the fundamental flaws within themselves, [elites] are devoting their energies to demonizing the victims of their corruption, all in order to delegitimize those grievances and thus relieve themselves of responsibility to meaningfully address them. That reaction only serves to bolster, if not vindicate, the animating perceptions that these elite institutions are hopelessly self-interested, toxic, and destructive and thus cannot be reformed but rather must be destroyed. That, in turn, only ensures there will be many more Brexits, and Trumps, in our collective future.

Beyond the Brexit analysis, there are three new points from last night’s results that I want to emphasize, as they are unique to the 2016 U.S. election and, more importantly, illustrate the elite pathologies that led to all of this:

1. Democrats have already begun flailing around trying to blame anyone and everyone they can find — everyone except themselves — for last night’s crushing defeat of their party.

You know the drearily predictable list of their scapegoats: Russia, WikiLeaks, James Comey, Jill Stein, Bernie Bros, The Media, news outlets (including, perhaps especially, The Intercept) that sinned by reporting negatively on Hillary Clinton. Anyone who thinks that what happened last night in places like Ohio, Pennsylvania, Iowa, and Michigan can be blamed on any of that is drowning in self-protective ignorance so deep that it’s impossible to express in words.

When a political party is demolished, the principal responsibility belongs to one entity: the party that got crushed. It’s the job of the party and the candidate, and nobody else, to persuade the citizenry to support them and find ways to do that. Last night, the Democrats failed, resoundingly, to do that, and any autopsy or liberal think piece or pro-Clinton pundit commentary that does not start and finish with their own behavior is one that is inherently worthless.

Put simply, Democrats knowingly chose to nominate a deeply unpopular, extremely vulnerable, scandal-plagued candidate, who — for very good reason — was widely perceived to be a protector and beneficiary of all the worst components of status quo elite corruption. It’s astonishing that those of us who tried frantically to warn Democrats that nominating Hillary Clinton was a huge and scary gamble — that all empirical evidence showed that she could lose to anyone and Bernie Sanders would be a much stronger candidate, especially in this climate — are now the ones being blamed: by the very same people who insisted on ignoring all that data and nominating her anyway.

But that’s just basic blame shifting and self-preservation. Far more significant is what this shows about the mentality of the Democratic Party. Just think about who they nominated: someone who — when she wasn’t dining with Saudi monarchs and being feted in Davos by tyrants who gave million-dollar checks — spent the last several years piggishly running around to Wall Street banks and major corporations cashing in with $250,000 fees for 45-minute secret speeches even though she had already become unimaginably rich with book advances while her husband already made tens of millions playing these same games. She did all that without the slightest apparent concern for how that would feed into all the perceptions and resentments of her and the Democratic Party as corrupt, status quo-protecting, aristocratic tools of the rich and powerful: exactly the worst possible behavior for this post-2008-economic-crisis era of globalism and destroyed industries.

It goes without saying that Trump is a sociopathic con artist obsessed with personal enrichment: the opposite of a genuine warrior for the downtrodden. That’s too obvious to debate. But, just as Obama did so powerfully in 2008, he could credibly run as an enemy of the D.C. and Wall Street system that has steamrolled over so many people, while Hillary Clinton is its loyal guardian, its consummate beneficiary.

Trump vowed to destroy the system that elites love (for good reason) and the masses hate (for equally good reason), while Clinton vowed to manage it more efficiently. That, as Matt Stoller’s indispensable article in The Atlantic three weeks ago documented, is the conniving choice the Democratic Party made decades ago: to abandon populism and become the party of technocratically proficient, mildly benevolent managers of elite power. Those are the cynical, self-interested seeds they planted, and now the crop has sprouted.

Of course there are fundamental differences between Obama’s version of “change” and Trump’s. But at a high level of generality — which is where these messages are often ingested — both were perceived as outside forces on a mission to tear down corrupt elite structures, while Clinton was perceived as devoted to their fortification. That is the choice made by Democrats — largely happy with status quo authorities, believing in their basic goodness — and any honest attempt by Democrats to find the prime author of last night’s debacle will begin with a large mirror.

2. That racism, misogyny, and xenophobia are pervasive in all sectors of America is indisputable from even a casual glance at its history, both distant and recent.

There are reasons why all presidents until 2008 were white and all 45 elected presidents have been men. There can be no doubt that those pathologies played a substantial role in last night’s outcome. But that fact answers very few questions and begs many critical ones.

To begin with, one must confront the fact that not only was Barack Obama elected twice, but he is poised to leave office as a highly popular president: now viewed more positively than Reagan. America wasn’t any less racist and xenophobic in 2008 and 2012 than it is now. Even stalwart Democrats fond of casually branding their opponents as bigots are acknowledging that a far more complicated analysis is required to understand last night’s results. As the New York Times’s Nate Cohn put it: “Clinton suffered her biggest losses in the places where Obama was strongest among white voters. It’s not a simple racism story.” Matt Yglesias acknowledged that Obama’s high approval rating is inconsistent with depictions of the U.S. as a country “besotted with racism.”

People often talk about “racism/sexism/xenophobia” vs. “economic suffering” as if they are totally distinct dichotomies. Of course there are substantial elements of both in Trump’s voting base, but the two categories are inextricably linked: The more economic suffering people endure, the angrier and more bitter they get, the easier it is to direct their anger to scapegoats. Economic suffering often fuels ugly bigotry. It is true that many Trump voters are relatively well-off and many of the nation’s poorest voted for Clinton, but, as Michael Moore quite presciently warned, those portions of the country that have been most ravaged by free trade orgies and globalism — Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Iowa — were filled with rage and “see [Trump] as a chance to be the human Molotov cocktail that they’d like to throw into the system to blow it up.” Those are the places that were decisive in Trump’s victory. As the Washington Examiner’s Tim Carney put it:
