CMV: BERNIE SANDERS WOULD HAVE LOST THE ELECTION.
ID: d9ucff9
Author: stormy2587

0

I'm gonna say a few things. I think its easy to assume that hillary went easy on bernie because it would have divided the party and hurt her more in the long run than it would have helped her. 

>He wouldn't have inspired black/hispanic turnout.

So Black and latino voters are gonna just vote for trump now? Hillary got way fewer votes than obama did. I think its safe to say she didn't inspire turnout in general. 

>He would not be able to capture Trump voters because he doesn't tap into racial anxiety, and actually causes religious anxiety

Everyone is so hung up on the fact that trump voters must be racist. Some definitely are but trump won working class white voters by 40% thats fucking unreal. He did that by appealing to the fact that he wasn't a typical washington guy and that was gonna raise tariffs on foreign manufactured goods. He won by appealing to the people who lost manufacturing jobs to free trade. I heard a piece on NPR that Bernie stated privately and sometimes publicly that clinton was losing these voters and he in fact showed in the primaries that she wasn't paying enough attention to these voters when he won michigan and wisconsin. I don't think its unrealistic that at a minimum if Bernie were running he would have payed more attention and could have flipped the rust belt back winning the ~100000 voters it would have taken to win back michigan, wisconsin, and pennsylvania. And then he wins the election.

Another point I wanna make is that I don't think if bernie is running that jill stein gets a million votes. She offered to step down from the green party ticket and let bernie run in her place. I think a lot of bernie supporters voted stein because they didn't like clinton. 

Further I don't think Gary johnson gets 4 million votes. I think johnson poached votes from both parties. So I'm not really arguing spoiler effect here, but I think again a lot of bernie voters went for johnson because they couldn't stomach either HRC or trump. Clinton barely lost this thing and a lot of it was because she got way fewer votes in states that obama dominates. 

I don't think its unreasonable based on bernie's appeal that the democratic base would have had a similar showing for him and that he could have poached some more of the votes necessary to put the election away in key states.  

-------

