CMV: LIBERAL SMUGNESS/CONDESCENSION/SHAMING IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE VICTORY OF TRUMP
ID: d9ulzwj
Author: rtechnix

http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/

1

First off not gonna say either side acted well-behaved, and I apologize for idiots who shouted you down, anyone who called you a "redneck". Idiots who key cars cause there's a Trump sticker, or vandalize political signs. But don't generalize from a few bad experiences. Just like minority but very real Trump supporters who are racists and misogynists don't represent his entire base, they don't represent all of us. Painting either side with that brush is only adding to the schism.

But Trump's entire strategy revolved around bullying, casual racism and xenophobia, and generally creating divisiveness. Alright, maybe the liberals took the bait too hard and that contributed to their own downfall, but see it from their perspective: you have a man who called most Mexicans rapists, most Muslims terrorists, builds a platform on blaming other races for problems, personally insults other candidates during debates, insisted Obama was a foreigner, was literally caught on tape saying he sexually harasses women. And his support seems to eat it up.

> Maybe Trump will not fix everything, but he can at least piss the liberals off. Make them feel some of the pain they make us feel.

This is such a false narrative against this stereotype of all liberals being this comfortable, ivory-tower, East-Coast or SF yuppie who've just been living in luxury while the rest of you suffered. It's exactly what a campaign like Trump's wanted you to think because it drummed up that outrage that fed his support base. 

The average liberal, at least where I am? It's the hard-working Mexican-American who wants a little relief for his family. It's blacks who grew up in crummy neighborhoods who their whole world just seemed to be pushing them down an inescapable cycle of poverty and crime. It's other young white people who took the baby boomer path pushed on them only to find student debt, lack of jobs, and the dreams of things like home-ownership unrealistic in the modern world.

It's people who have felt marginalized for most of their lives, if not for multiple-generations, and Trump built his platform on further distrusting them. And somehow you're surprised they might feel Trump's support base is a little racist?

Now let me backtrack. I understand there's a lot of white, middle America that's been hit hard too. Loss of manufacturing. The whole rust belt. Small towns where service industry isn't a fallback. They're also the marginalized. [This article](http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/), #1#despite being cracked and kinda buzzfeed-y at first glance with the gifs and stuff, actually was real eye-opening on their perspective.#1# But just as he has to admit his views on the cities were manipulated and false, and I have to understand Trump's support is not all Confederate Flag wearing, gun-toting, rednecks -- so do you have to let go of this idea of the pervasive "smug liberal".

And all Trump was doing was puppeting one marginalized group against another. You saying "many of us voted for him just to piss off liberals" is playing right into his hand, same as the other side saying all Trump supporters are racists and sexist. Never that I can remember had a political run on such a division platform. Bush, for all his faults, never insulted a race of people, in fact, despite my dislike of him, he did a great job promoting American unity, especially post 9/11 -- including Muslims. I don't mean just by not saying anything bad about them, he went out of his way to praise them and accept them. Likewise liberal shows may have poked fun of Bush as airheaded, but it was hardly out of line from normal political satire.

So sure, the liberal side maybe took the bait too hard, but so did you.

-------

http://www.cracked.com/blog/6-reasons-trumps-rise-that-no-one-talks-about/
HOW HALF OF AMERICA LOST ITS F**KING MIND
"But Trump is objectively a piece of shit!" you say. "He insults people, he objectifies women, and cheats whenever possible! And he's not an everyman; he's a smarmy, arrogant billionaire!"

Wait, are you talking about Donald Trump, or this guy:

Marvel Studios

Make The Avengers Assemble Again.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

#1#You've never rooted for somebody like that? Someone powerful who gives your enemies the insults they deserve? Somebody with big fun appetites who screws up just enough to make them relatable? Like Dr. House or Walter White? Or any of the several million renegade cop characters who can break all the rules because they get shit done? Who only get shit done because they don't care about the rules?#1#

"But those are fictional characters!" Okay, what about all those millionaire left-leaning talk show hosts? You think they keep their insults classy? Tune into any bit about Chris Christie and start counting down the seconds until the fat joke. Google David Letterman's sex scandals. But it's okay, because they're on our side, and everybody wants an asshole on their team -- a spiked bat to smash their enemies with. That's all Trump is. The howls of elite outrage are like the sounds of bombs landing on the enemy's fortress. The louder the better.

Kevin Winter/Getty Images

And when cameras record said elites BFFing with their supposed enemy, even better.

↓ Continue Reading Below Advertisement

Already some of you have gotten angry, feeling this gut-level revulsion at any attempt to excuse or even understand these people. After all, they're hardly people, right? Aren't they just a mass of ignorant, rageful, crude, cursing, spitting subhumans?

Gee, I hope not. I have to hug a bunch of them at Thanksgiving. And when I do, it will be with the knowledge that if I hadn't moved away, I'd be on the other side of the fence, leaving nasty comments on this article the alternate universe version of me wrote.

Cracked

And not just because I reminded Rural Me of Billy Joel's worst song ever.

It feels good to dismiss people, to mock them, to write them off as deplorables. But you might as well take time to try to understand them, because I'm telling you, they'll still be around long after Trump is gone.

David Wong is the Executive Editor of Cracked, his most recent novel is now in development as a TV series and just came out in paperback. Robert Evans googled like a motherfucker for this article. You should buy his book.

The discussion doesn't end here. David talks about this article on this week's episode of the Cracked podcast.

For more from David Wong, check out The Baffling Stories Behind Our Epidemic Of Mass Killers and Why Anxiety Is The Plague Of The Modern World .

Subscribe to our YouTube channel, and check out What Trump Does With His Mouth When He's Not Speaking, and other videos you won't see on the site!

Follow us on Facebook, and give us a big hug, please.

-------

